https://hub.jhu.edu
Home                 | Hub

Entrepreneurship HopStart challenge showcases student start-ups Published May 13, 2024 Cross-disciplinary teams pitched plans for an at-home glaucoma sensor, a hub for music-related services, biodegradable fishing nets, and more Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Photos This week in Jay-PEGs Published May 9, 2024 Highlights from this week include a robotics show-down and tons of grad photos Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Campus close-up Strolling toward Commencement Published May 7, 2024 Students and families countdown to the big day: Thursday, May 23 University, protesters agree to end Homewood encampment Published May 12, 2024 Student protesters agree to remove encampment on Sunday, May 12; university promises a timely review of divestment question and to conclude encampment-related student conduct proceedings Artificial intelligence Chatbots tell people what they want to hear Published May 13, 2024 A Johns Hopkins-led team found that chatbots reinforce our biases, providing insight into how AI
https://hub.jhu.edu/
Home                 | Hub

Entrepreneurship HopStart challenge showcases student start-ups Published May 13, 2024 Cross-disciplinary teams pitched plans for an at-home glaucoma sensor, a hub for music-related services, biodegradable fishing nets, and more Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Photos This week in Jay-PEGs Published May 9, 2024 Highlights from this week include a robotics show-down and tons of grad photos Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Campus close-up Strolling toward Commencement Published May 7, 2024 Students and families countdown to the big day: Thursday, May 23 University, protesters agree to end Homewood encampment Published May 12, 2024 Student protesters agree to remove encampment on Sunday, May 12; university promises a timely review of divestment question and to conclude encampment-related student conduct proceedings Artificial intelligence Chatbots tell people what they want to hear Published May 13, 2024 A Johns Hopkins-led team found that chatbots reinforce our biases, providing insight into how AI
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/02/johns-hopkins-honorary-degree-recipients-2024-commencement/
 Johns Hopkins announces six honorary degree recipients for 2024 Commencement ceremony | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins announces six honorary degree recipients for 2024 Commencement ceremony Degrees will be conferred during the universitywide Commencement ceremony on May 23 at Homewood Field By Hub staff report / Published May 2, 2024 Media Inquiries NameJohns Hopkins Media Relations Emailjhunews@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9009 A world-renowned soprano, a legendary investor and philanthropist, a devoted public servant and U.S. senator, a leading scholar of international conflict resolution, a groundbreaking and inspiring architect and artist, and a pop music icon who has graced America's airwaves with his prodigious talents for decades will receive Johns Hopkins University honorary degrees later this month. The honorees will have their degrees conferred during the universitywide Commencement ceremony on May 23 at Homewood Field in Baltimore. "This year's honorary degree recipients have time and time again shown us the power of art, music, law, philosophy, and public service to bring people of different backgrounds together and inspire
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/03/28/mitt-romney-johns-hopkins-commencement-speaker/
Mitt Romney to give Johns Hopkins Commencement address | Hub
Jill Rosen
Image caption: Mitt Romney Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Mitt Romney to give Johns Hopkins Commencement address U.S. senator and 2012 Republican presidential nominee will address the Class of 2024 on May 23 By Jill Rosen / Published March 28, 2024 Media Inquiries NameJill Rosen Emailjrosen@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9906 Cell phone443-547-8805 U.S. Sen. Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee who has spoken out against partisanship and defended democratic ideals, even when it has placed him at odds with the party he once led, will speak at Johns Hopkins University's Commencement ceremony on Thursday, May 23. Romney will receive an honorary doctor of humane letters degree during the ceremony at Homewood Field, where about 1,700 Johns Hopkins undergraduates, graduate students and professional students will claim their degrees. About 11,000 students in total will graduate in 2024. "Mitt Romney's track record of public and private leadership is extraordinary," said Johns
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/04/29/student-commencement-speaker-kristen-corlay-sanmiguel/
Kristen Corlay Sanmiguel selected as Johns Hopkins student Commencement speaker | Hub
Hub staff report
Commencement 2024 Kristen Corlay Sanmiguel selected as Johns Hopkins student Commencement speaker Corlay Sanmiguel, a civil engineering student and co-creator of a civic engagement app in her native Mexico, was elected by members of the senior class to speak at this year's universitywide event on May 23 By Hub staff report / Published April 29, 2024 Johns Hopkins University senior Kristen Corlay Sanmiguel has been elected by her peers as the student speaker for the universitywide Commencement ceremony next month. Image caption: Kristen Corlay Sanmiguel Corlay Sanmiguel will graduate with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering from JHU's Whiting School of Engineering, with minors in sustainable development and systems engineering. Originally from Monterrey, Mexico, she is the co-creator of the civic engagement app Cabilde. The app's goal is to democratize legislative information for the citizens of the Mexican state of Nuevo León, making it easier for them to contact their
https://hub.jhu.edu/2023/06/26/sustainable-city-block-design-asce-competition/
Engineering team's sustainable city block design earns top-five spot in ASCE competition | Hub
Katherine Shock
Image caption: Gianna Murphy, Maya Mann, Ciara Darden, Adeola Ojuade, Kristen Corlay Sanmiguel, and Julia Choe Credit: Courtesy Kristen Corlay Sanmiguel Undergraduate honors Engineering team's sustainable city block design earns top-five spot in ASCE competition The competition encourages students to learn more about sustainability and challenges them to include sustainable practices in engineering design in a practical way By Katherine Shock / Published June 26, 2023 An engineering undergraduate team's design of a green and sustainable city block placed in the top five in the finals of the 2023 American Society of Civil Engineers Sustainable Solutions Competition held at the University of Wisconsin-Platteville earlier this month. Led by Kristen Corlay Sanmiguel, a senior civil and systems engineering major at the Whiting School of Engineering, the team was the first-ever from Johns Hopkins to advance to the finals from the regional contest held in April. The purpose of the competition is
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/02/peabody-commencement-stevie-wonder-misty-copeland/
 Stevie Wonder and Misty Copeland to speak at Peabody Conservatory's 2024 graduation ceremonies | Hub
Hub staff report
Image caption: Stevie Wonder and Misty Copeland Credit: Courtesy Stevie Wonder; Photo by Masterclass (Misty Copeland) Commencement 2024 Stevie Wonder and Misty Copeland to speak at Peabody Conservatory's 2024 graduation ceremonies Both artists will also receive the George Peabody Medal for Outstanding Contributions to Music and Dance in America By Hub staff report / Published May 2, 2024 Two of the most recognizable performing artists of their times, and trailblazing advocates for access and inclusion in the arts, Stevie Wonder and Misty Copeland will deliver addresses for the Peabody Conservatory's 2024 Graduation ceremonies on Wednesday, May 22. Copeland, the first African American woman ever to become a principal dancer in the American Ballet Theatre's 75-year history, will address undergraduates at the morning ceremony; Wonder, one of the bestselling music artists of all time, will speak at the afternoon ceremony for graduate students. Both will receive the George Peabody Medal for
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/07/2024-delta-teaching-forum/
 Teaching forum gives new insights to Johns Hopkins educators | Hub
Claire Goudreau
Credit: Jim Burger for Johns Hopkins University University Education Teaching forum gives new insights to Johns Hopkins educators The Provost's DELTA Teaching Forum included a keynote talk from Arthur Levine, author of 'The Great Upheaval: Higher Education's Past, Present, and Uncertain Future' By Claire Goudreau / Published May 7, 2024 The Office of the Provost hosted its 6th annual Digital Education and Learning Technology Acceleration (DELTA) Teaching Forum on May 2, bringing the Johns Hopkins community together to discuss best practices and innovations in university teaching. "You have the ability this time to reinvent undergraduate education for a global digital knowledge society. I know it's a daunting task, but no university is better equipped to accomplish it than the Johns Hopkins." Arthur LevinePresident emeritus, Columbia University's Teachers College "We all recognize that teaching is a core part of our mission," said Executive Vice Provost Stephen Gange, who opened the event.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/08/2024-knight-hennessy-scholars/
 Two JHU alumni named Knight-Hennessy Scholars at Stanford University | Hub
Hub staff report
Image caption: From left, Ank Agarwal and Anson Zhou Credit: Stanford University Awards+Honors Two JHU alumni named Knight-Hennessy Scholars at Stanford University Ank Agarwal and Anson Zhou will receive up to three years of tuition at Stanford University, along with stipends for living costs, academic expenses, and travel By Hub staff report / Published May 8, 2024 Two Johns Hopkins alumni, Ank Agarwal and Anson Zhou, will join the 7th cohort of Knight-Hennessy Scholars at Stanford University. The Knight-Hennessy Scholars Program brings together exceptional graduate students from across all seven schools at Stanford to participate in multidisciplinary dialogue and leadership training. Scholars receive a fellowship for up to three years of tuition, a stipend for living and academic expenses, and a travel stipend for one annual trip to and from Stanford. Ank Agarwal, from New Haven, Connecticut, is pursuing an MD and a PhD in cancer biology at the Stanford
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/08/lilliana-mason-andrew-carnagie-fellowship/
 Lilliana Mason awarded Andrew Carnegie Fellowship | Hub
Claire Goudreau
Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Faculty Honors Lilliana Mason awarded Andrew Carnegie Fellowship An associate professor of political science at the SNF Agora Institute at Johns Hopkins University, Mason is one of 28 scholars receiving grants of up to $200,000 to research political polarization By Claire Goudreau / Published May 8, 2024 Media Inquiries NameJohns Hopkins Media Relations Emailjhunews@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9009 Lilliana Mason, associate professor of political science at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Agora Institute at Johns Hopkins University, has been named to the 2024 class of Andrew Carnegie Fellows. The 28 scholars selected this year will each receive grants of up to $200,000 to research political polarization. The Carnegie Fellows Program was founded by the Carnegie Corporation of New York in 2015 to support research in the humanities and social sciences, distributing over $50 million to date. Recipients are expected to produce either a book or a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/10/johns-hopkins-transfer-students/
Hopkins welcomes admitted transfer students for the fall semester | Hub
Rebecca Kirkman
Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Undergraduate admissions Hopkins welcomes admitted transfer students for the fall semester Community organizers, military veterans, and inventors among students invited to transfer to Hopkins By Rebecca Kirkman / Published May 10, 2024 Media Inquiries NameJohns Hopkins Media Relations Emailjhunews@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9009 Today 105 transfer applicants were offered admission to Johns Hopkins University. This fall, they will join students previously admitted to the Class of 2028. "Transfer students contribute unique perspectives to our campus through their sense of self-direction, community-oriented mindset, and previous experience in a college environment," says Ellen Chow, dean of Undergraduate Admissions. "In them, we see students who are ready to contribute to and grow with our community." APPLY NOWLearn more about applying to JHUFind out more about our review process and what we look for in applicants They include a filmmaker who uses their work to challenge conventional storytelling, a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2023/12/15/johns-hopkins-class-of-2028-early-decision/
Johns Hopkins welcomes first members of its Class of 2028 | Hub
Rebecca Kirkman
Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Undergraduate admissions Johns Hopkins welcomes first members of its Class of 2028 A diverse and talented group of 550 students representing the breadth and depth of the Hopkins community has been admitted in the Early Decision I cohort By Rebecca Kirkman / Published Dec 15, 2023 Media Inquiries NameJohns Hopkins Media Relations Emailjhunews@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9009 F ive hundred fifty students from 26 countries, 40 states, two U.S. territories, and the District of Columbia were offered admission to Johns Hopkins University today. These first members of the undergraduate Class of 2028 include students admitted through Early Decision I and the inaugural cohort of QuestBridge Scholars. "We're excited to see that so many impressive students have identified Hopkins as their top choice when applying to college," said Ellen Chow, dean of undergraduate admissions. "These students represent the breadth and depth of perspectives within not only
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/02/16/johns-hopkins-welcomes-early-decision-ii-cohort-class-of-2028/
Johns Hopkins welcomes more students to its Class of 2028 | Hub
Hub staff report
Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Undergraduate admissions Johns Hopkins welcomes more students to its Class of 2028 259 students in the Early Decision II cohort join 550 students admitted during the first Early Decision period in December By Hub staff report / Published Feb 16, 2024 Two-hundred fifty nine students from 18 countries, 26 states, and one U.S. territory were offered admission to the Johns Hopkins University undergraduate Class of 2028 in the Early Decision II cohort today, joining 550 students admitted in the first Early Decision period in December. "In these students we see genuine academic curiosity and a readiness to engage with new perspectives that will allow them to thrive in our community," said Calvin Wise, deputy dean of undergraduate admissions. "In them, the Class of 2028 already represents the most talented, engaged students from around the world." "We look forward to the questions they will
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/03/20/johns-hopkins-class-of-2028-regular-decision/
Johns Hopkins invites 1,749 students to join its Class of 2028 | Hub
Rebecca Kirkman
Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Undergraduate admissions Johns Hopkins invites 1,749 students to join its Class of 2028 They have the opportunity to join 809 students previously admitted to the class in the Early Decision cohorts By Rebecca Kirkman / Published March 20, 2024 Media Inquiries NameJohns Hopkins Media Relations Emailjhunews@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9009 Today 1,749 students from 52 countries, 49 states, the District of Columbia, and two U.S. territories were offered admission to Johns Hopkins University's undergraduate Class of 2028 in the Regular Decision cohort, joining 809 previously admitted Early Decision applicants. APPLY NOWLearn more about applying to JHUFind out more about our review process and what we look for in applicants "It's exciting to see the many creative ways these students are already applying what they learn to make an impact in their communities," said Calvin Wise, deputy dean of undergraduate admissions. "Together with our Early Decision
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/12/university-protesters-agree-to-end-encampment/
University, protesters reach agreement to end Homewood campus encampment | Hub
Hub staff report
University, protesters reach agreement to end Homewood campus encampment Student protesters agree to remove encampment on Sunday, May 12; university promises a timely review of divestment question and to conclude encampment-related student conduct proceedings By Hub staff report / Published May 12, 2024 Media Inquiries NameJohns Hopkins Media Relations Emailjhunews@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9009 Johns Hopkins University and student protesters reached an agreement on the dismantling and conclusion of the protest-related encampment on the Beach at the Homewood campus. Effective immediately, protesters have agreed to take down the encampment on Sunday, May 12, and not to restart it. Non-university affiliates taking part in the encampment are directed to vacate the premises. Since the protest began April 29, the university has sought a peaceful resolution to the presence of the encampment, which violates university policies designed to protect freedom of expression and ensure campus safety. Under the agreement, the university promised a timely
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/04/30/message-pro-palestinian-protest/
University leaders share message on pro-Palestinian protest on Homewood campus | Hub
Hub staff report
University leaders share message on pro-Palestinian protest on Homewood campus Johns Hopkins University President Ron Daniels, Provost Ray Jayawardhana describe a 'peaceful and productive resolution' to support the students' continuing protest Image caption: Pro-Palestinian protesters gather on the Beach at the university's Homewood campus Tuesday morning. Protest leaders and university leaders reached an agreement early Tuesday to support the continuing protest while ensuring safety and minimizing disruption to university activities. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published April 30, 2024 Media Inquiries NameJohns Hopkins Media Relations Emailjhunews@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9009 Johns Hopkins University President Ron Daniels and Provost Ray Jayawardhana sent a message to the Hopkins community today regarding a pro-Palestinian protest initiated at the Homewood campus yesterday afternoon. Their complete message is below: Dear Johns Hopkins Community, We are writing to update you on the status of a pro-Palestinian protest initiated at the Homewood
https://hub.jhu.edu/2023/10/10/president-daniels-message-israel-gaza-conflict/
Johns Hopkins University president shares message on violence in Israel and Gaza | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins University president shares message on violence in Israel and Gaza President Daniels expresses sympathies to those whose loved ones are in harm's way, identifies resources for those in need of solace or aid By Hub staff report / Published Oct 10, 2023 Johns Hopkins University President Ron Daniels sent a message to the Hopkins community today regarding the conflict in Israel and the Gaza Strip today, expressing his deepest sympathies to those whose families, friends, and loved ones are in harm's way, and identifying resources for anyone in the Hopkins community in need of solace or aid. His complete message is below: Dear Johns Hopkins Community, Like so many, I spent this past weekend watching with horror and anguish as Hamas, in a surprise attack, crossed Israel's border and brutally murdered hundreds of Israeli civilians and took many hostages back to the Gaza Strip. Already, in response to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/02/president-daniels-message-pro-palestinian-protest/
President Daniels shares message on pro-Palestinian protest on Homewood campus | Hub
Hub staff report
President Daniels shares message on pro-Palestinian protest on Homewood campus His update on outreach to protesters reiterates the university's commitment 'to maintaining a campus environment that values free speech, but also where everyone feels safe and welcome' Image caption: Pro-Palestinian protesters gather on the Beach at the university's Homewood campus April 30 Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published May 2, 2024 Media Inquiries NameJohns Hopkins Media Relations Emailjhunews@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9009 Johns Hopkins University President Ron Daniels sent a message to the Hopkins community this afternoon regarding a pro-Palestinian protest initiated at the Homewood campus April 29. His complete message is below: Dear Johns Hopkins Community, I am sharing with you the message I sent earlier today to the members of the Hopkins Justice Collective and student protesters who are encamped on our Homewood campus. As I did earlier this week, I chose to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/10/encampment-update-message/
University leaders share update on Homewood campus encampment | Hub
Hub staff report
University leaders share update on Homewood campus encampment A message to the Johns Hopkins University community from President Ron Daniels and Provost Ray Jayawardhana By Hub staff report / Published May 10, 2024 Media Inquiries NameDoug Donovan Emaildougdonovan@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9909 Cell phone443-462-2947 Johns Hopkins University President Ron Daniels and Provost Ray Jayawardhana sent a message to the Hopkins community this evening regarding an encampment initiated at the Homewood campus on April 29. Their complete message is below: Dear Johns Hopkins Community, We are writing to update you on the ongoing encampment at our Homewood campus. With the help and support of many members of our faculty and staff, we have been working since the start of the encampment on April 29 to find a peaceful resolution—one that accords with the university's basic obligation to keep our students and community safe while honoring our commitment to free expression and open dialogue.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/13/chatbots-tell-people-what-they-want-to-hear/
Chatbots tell people what they want to hear | Hub
Hannah Robbins
Credit: Getty Images Artificial intelligence Chatbots tell people what they want to hear A Johns Hopkins-led team found that chatbots reinforce our biases, providing insight into how AI could widen the public divide on controversial issues By Hannah Robbins / Published May 13, 2024 Media Inquiries NameHannah Robbins Emailhlrobbins@jhu.edu Cell phone667-232-9047 Chatbots share limited information, reinforce ideologies, and, as a result, can lead to more polarized thinking when it comes to controversial issues, according to new Johns Hopkins University–led research. The study challenges perceptions that chatbots are impartial and provides insight into how using conversational search systems could widen the public divide on hot-button issues and leave people vulnerable to manipulation. "Because people are reading a summary paragraph generated by AI, they think they're getting unbiased, fact-based answers," said lead author Ziang Xiao, an assistant professor of computer science in the Whiting School of Engineering at Johns Hopkins who studies
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/13/fruit-fly-testes-harmful-insects/
Fruit fly testes offer potential tool against harmful insects | Hub
Roberto Molar Candanosa
Credit: Getty Images Chemistry Fruit fly testes offer potential tool against harmful insects An enzyme found in fruit fly testes could control bugs that carry disease and harm crops by stunting their ability to procreate, Johns Hopkins University researchers found By Roberto Molar Candanosa / Published May 13, 2024 Media Inquiries NameRoberto Molar Candanosa Emailrmolarc1@jh.edu Office phone443-997-0258 Cell phone443-938-1944 A way to curb nagging insects has been flying under our radar—an enzyme from fruit fly testes. The compound could control bugs that carry disease and harm crops by stunting their ability to procreate, Johns Hopkins University researchers found. "We have a toe in the door to control fruit fly populations with this enzyme," said Steven Rokita, a professor of chemistry at Johns Hopkins University who led the research. "It could offer a good way to control fertility of all kinds of biological and agricultural pests, starting with mosquito populations." "We
https://hub.jhu.edu/2023/04/07/worm-embryos-pluripotecy/
Here's how a worm's embryonic cells changed its development potential | Hub
Roberto Molar Candanosa
Biology Here's how a worm's embryonic cells changed its development potential The findings, which upend classical thinking about animal cell differentiation, could shed light on mutations linked to human diseases By Roberto Molar Candanosa / Published April 7, 2023 Media Inquiries NameRoberto Molar Candanosa Emailrmolarc1@jh.edu Office phone443-997-0258 Cell phone443-938-1944 Researchers have spotted how specific proteins within the chromosomes of roundworms enable their offspring to produce specialized cells generations later, a startling finding that upends classical thinking that hereditary information for cell differentiation is mostly ingrained within DNA and other genetic factors. Image caption: A video clip shows cellular changes in the roundworm from a histone H3 variant in red to an H3-rich genome in green Image credit: Ryan J. Gleason / Johns Hopkins University The Johns Hopkins University team reports for the first time the mechanisms by which a protein known as histone H3 controls when and how worm embryos
https://hub.jhu.edu/2023/10/26/knifefish-shimmy-sensing/
To navigate the world, we all shimmy like these electric fish | Hub
Roberto Molar Candanosa
Science+Technology To navigate the world, we all shimmy like these electric fish Johns Hopkins scientists are the first to demonstrate that a wide range of organisms, even microbes, perform the same pattern of movements in order to sense their surroundings By Roberto Molar Candanosa / Published Oct 26, 2023 Media Inquiries NameRoberto Molar Candanosa Emailrmolarc1@jh.edu Office phone443-997-0258 Cell phone443-938-1944 An electric knifefish shimmies in the water for the same reason a dog sniffs or a human glances around a new place—to make sense of their surroundings. For the first time, scientists demonstrate that a wide range of organisms, even microbes, perform the same pattern of movements in order to sense the world. The research, which has implications for cognition and robotics, was published today in Nature Machine Intelligence. "Amoeba don't even have a nervous system, and yet they adopt behavior that has a lot in common with a human's postural
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/11/30/electric-fish-robotics-advances/
Scientists hope to build better robots by studying the subtle movements of fish | Hub
Jill Rosen
Scientists hope to build better robots by studying the subtle movements of fish Study sheds light on how animals use active sensing behaviors to navigate the world around them By Jill Rosen / Published Nov 30, 2018 Media Inquiries NameJill Rosen Emailjrosen@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9906 Cell phone443-547-8805 The constant movement of fish that seems random is actually precisely deployed to provide them at any moment with the best sensory feedback they need to navigate the world, Johns Hopkins University researchers have found. The finding, published in the journal Current Biology, enhances our understanding of active sensing behaviors performed by all animals, including humans, such as whisking, touching, and sniffing. It also demonstrates how robots built with better sensors could interact with their environment more effectively. "There's a saying in biology that when the world is still, you stop being able to sense it," says senior author Noah Cowan, a mechanical engineer
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/20/spider-crickets-jumping-robotics/
Researchers at Johns Hopkins study crickets' aerial acrobatics in hopes of building better robots | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Researchers at Johns Hopkins study crickets' aerial acrobatics in hopes of building better robots High-speed videos reveal controlled motion, aerodynamics Video: Len Turner and Dave Schmelick By Phil Sneiderman / Published Oct 20, 2015 When it's time to design new robots, sometimes the best inspiration can come from Mother Nature. Take, for example, her creepy, but incredibly athletic spider crickets. Johns Hopkins engineering students and their professor have spent more than eight months unraveling the hopping skills, airborne antics, and safe-landing patterns of these pesky insects that commonly lurk in the dark corners of damp basements. The team, which hopes to pave the way for a new generation of small but skillful jumping robots, will present its findings Nov. 23 during a poster session in Boston at the 68th annual meeting of the American Physical Society's Division of Fluid Dynamics. The Johns Hopkins team members believe non-human creatures may be
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/01/11/retina-organoids/
Lab-grown retinas explain why people see colors dogs can't | Hub
Roberto Molar Candanosa
Image caption: Retinal organoid marked to show blue cones in cyan and green/red cones in green. Cells called rods that help the eye see in low-light or dark conditions are marked in magenta. Credit: Sarah Hadyniak/Johns Hopkins University Biology Lab-grown retinas explain why people see colors dogs can't With human retinas grown in a petri dish, researchers discover how humans generate the specialized cells that enable us to see millions of colors By Roberto Molar Candanosa / Published Jan 11, 2024 Media Inquiries NameRoberto Molar Candanosa Emailrmolarc1@jh.edu Office phone443-997-0258 Cell phone443-938-1944 Using human retinas grown in a petri dish, researchers have discovered how an offshoot of vitamin A generates the specialized cells that enable people to see millions of colors, an ability that dogs, cats, and other mammals do not possess. "These retinal organoids allowed us for the first time to study this very human-specific trait," said author Robert Johnston,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/13/hopstart-new-venture-challenge/
HopStart challenge showcases Johns Hopkins student start-ups | Hub
Emily Myrick
Image caption: The Scheduling Wizard team won a $3,000 HopStone Capital Award Credit: Robert Smith for Johns Hopkins University Entrepreneurship HopStart challenge showcases Johns Hopkins student start-ups Cross-disciplinary teams pitched plans for an at-home glaucoma sensor, a hub for music-related services, biodegradable fishing nets, and more By Emily Myrick / Published May 13, 2024 Student teams from across the university competed for $45,000 in prizes at the 24th annual HopStart: Hopkins New Venture Challenge held Friday, April 26, at the Inn at the Colonnade, north of the Johns Hopkins' Homewood campus. Competitors began preparing for the event in mid-February by writing full business plans and receiving feedback from industry professionals. Fifty-five teams pitched their startup ideas, including a Baltimore-based harm-reduction program created by a team of Clark Scholars, a versatile, software-based thermal solution for satellite production, and a port system for fetal therapy procedures over the event's two rounds of
https://hub.jhu.edu/about/
 About the Hub                 | Hub

About the Hub We’ve been doing some thinking — quite a bit, actually — about all the things that go on at Johns Hopkins. Discovering the glue that holds the universe together, for example. Or unraveling the mysteries of Alzheimer’s disease. Or studying butterflies in flight to fine-tune the construction of aerial surveillance robots. Heady stuff, and a lot of it. In fact, Johns Hopkins does so much, in so many places, that it’s hard to wrap your brain around it all. It’s too big, too disparate, too far-flung. We created the Hub to be the news center for all this diverse, decentralized activity, a place where you can see what’s new, what’s important, what Johns Hopkins is up to that’s worth sharing. It’s where smart people (like you) can learn about all the smart stuff going on here. At the Hub, you might read about cutting-edge cancer research or
https://hub.jhu.edu/alumni/
 Alumni                 | Hub

Alumni Awards+Honors Two alums named Knight-Hennessy Scholars Published May 8, 2024 Ank Agarwal and Anson Zhou will receive up to three years of tuition at Stanford University, along with stipends for living costs, academic expenses, and travel Awards+Honors Michael Bloomberg receives Presidential Medal of Freedom Published May 3, 2024 1964 JHU graduate honored for revolutionizing the financial information industry, transforming the state of education, the environment, public health, and the arts in New York City Awards+Honors Alumni, grad students named Soros Fellows Published April 18, 2024 They are among 30 recipients of the fellowships, which honor immigrants and children of immigrants with exceptional potential to make a difference in their fields A First-Year Friendship Lasts Forever Published Spring 2024 They met first day of freshman year, fall 1975. Their memories of that initial encounter differ, but the outcome—an enduring friendship of 50 years—remains the same. / Johns Hopkins Magazine Alums
https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/04/18/johns-hopkins-affiliates-named-paul-and-daisy-soros-fellows/
Two Johns Hopkins alumni, two graduate students named Paul and Daisy Soros Fellows | Hub
Aleyna Rentz
Image caption: Clockwise from left: Shubhayu Bhattacharyay, Min Jae Kim, James Occean, and Michael Xie Awards+Honors Two Johns Hopkins alumni, two graduate students named Paul and Daisy Soros Fellows They are among 30 recipients of the fellowships, which honor immigrants and children of immigrants with exceptional potential to make a difference in their fields By Aleyna Rentz / Published April 18, 2024 Four Johns Hopkins affiliates have been awarded the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans. One of the most competitive scholarships in the United States, the Soros Fellowship honors the contributions of immigrants and children of immigrants to the United States. This year, 30 fellows were chosen from over 2,300 applicants. Fellows are awarded up $90,000 in financial support and are chosen for their potential to make significant contributions to their academic field. This year's awardees from Johns Hopkins are Shubhayu Bhattacharyay, Engr '20; Min Jae Kim,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2020/02/13/shubhayu-bhattacharyay-gates-scholarship-649-em1-art0-dtd-students/
 Johns Hopkins senior awarded Gates Cambridge Scholarship | Hub
Jacob deNobel
Johns Hopkins senior awarded Gates Cambridge Scholarship Shubhayu Bhattacharyay will pursue a PhD in clinical neuroscience at Cambridge and work on the development of AI systems to visualize data for those suffering from traumatic brain injuries Image caption: Shubhayu Bhattacharyay Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Jacob deNobel / Published Feb 13, 2020 Shubhayu Bhattacharyay, a Johns Hopkins University senior majoring in biomedical engineering, has won a Gates Cambridge Scholarship supporting his post-graduate studies in clinical neuroscience at the University of Cambridge in England. Established in 2000 by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the scholarship enables outstanding students from outside the United Kingdom to pursue a full-time graduate degree in any subject at the University of Cambridge. Only 80 scholarships are granted worldwide each year, with about 25 allotted for American students. While at Cambridge, Bhattacharyay will pursue a PhD in clinical neuroscience and work with David
https://hub.jhu.edu/2020/01/30/vinay-ayyappan-churchill-649-em0-art1-dtd-students/
Johns Hopkins senior awarded Churchill Scholarship to complete master's degree at Cambridge | Hub
Jacob deNobel
Johns Hopkins senior awarded Churchill Scholarship to complete master's degree at Cambridge Vinay Ayyappan will study cancer imaging techniques in the laboratory of Cambridge radiologist Ferdia Gallagher By Jacob deNobel / Published Jan 30, 2020 Vinay Ayyappan, a Johns Hopkins senior majoring in biomedical engineering, has won a Churchill Scholarship to study at the University of Cambridge in England. Awarded by the Winston Churchill Foundation of the United States, the scholarship supports science, mathematics, and engineering students from the United States as they complete a master's degree program at Cambridge. The scholarship is valued at about $60,000 and includes living and travel stipends as well as tuition for the program, which ranges in length from nine months to one year. Students are selected based on their academic achievements, extracurricular interests, and dedication to research. Image caption: Vinay Ayyappan Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Ayyappan, who received a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2019/05/03/goldwater-scholarship/
Three Johns Hopkins juniors named Goldwater Scholars | Hub
Hub staff report
Three Johns Hopkins juniors named Goldwater Scholars 496 winners selected nationally for award that recognizes student achievements in STEM fields Image caption: From left: Kathy Le, Vinay Ayyappan, and Julia Costacurta Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published May 3, 2019 Three Johns Hopkins University students have been awarded Goldwater Scholarships for their research and achievements in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math. Vinay Ayyappan, Julia Costacurta, and Kathy Le are among 496 scholarship winners for the 2019-2020 academic year. Established in 1986, the Goldwater Scholarship was one of the first significant national scholarships focusing on STEM fields. The program awards winners $7,500 for tuition, fees, books, and room and board. The national recognition has also been known to give students a competitive edge when pursuing graduate fellowships in their fields. Sophomores and juniors are nominated by their schools and selected for
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/04/24/goldwater-scholars-2018/
Three Johns Hopkins juniors named Goldwater Scholars | Hub
Hub staff report
Three Johns Hopkins juniors named Goldwater Scholars Alaleh Azhir, Aditya Mohan, Wenzer Qin recognized for outstanding promise in STEM fields Image caption: The Goldwater Scholar winners (from left): Aditya Mohan, Alaleh Azhir, and Wenzer Qin Credit: Courtesy of Aditya Mohan, Alaleh Azhir, and Wenzer Qin By Hub staff report / Published April 24, 2018 Three Johns Hopkins juniors have been named Goldwater Scholars, an honor recognizing their outstanding promise in the fields of natural sciences, engineering, and mathematics. Alaleh Azhir, Aditya Mohan, and Wenzer Qin have each been named a Goldwater Scholar for the 2018–19 academic year. Junior Rohan Panaparambil received honorable mention. Established in 1986, the Goldwater Scholarship was one of the first significant national scholarships focusing on STEM fields (science, technology, engineering, and math). Winners are nominated by their schools and selected for their academic merit. This year, 211 scholarships were awarded to students from an applicant pool
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/04/17/chung-ha-davis-soros-fellowship/
Early sacrifices made Chung-ha Davis' dream of studying neuroscience a reality | Hub
Saralyn Cruickshank
Early sacrifices made Chung-ha Davis' dream of studying neuroscience a reality Hopkins alum awarded Soros Fellowship, which recognizes outstanding immigrants and children of immigrants Image caption: Chung-ha Davis Credit: Courtesy of Chung-ha Davis By Saralyn Cruickshank / Published April 17, 2018 Chung-ha Davis remembers the eureka moment when he knew he would become a neuroscientist. He was in a lab at Johns Hopkins studying the interactions of different types of cells in the optic nerve, investigating the neural processes associated with glaucoma. Using an electron microscope, he zoomed in to 100, then 200 times the magnification, seeing cell structures and organelles he had only ever seen as illustrations in a textbook. That passion, fueled by his teachers and mentors and a natural curiosity about the nervous system, propelled Davis to graduate with a combined bachelor's and master's degree in neuroscience from Johns Hopkins in 2012. Now he has been awarded
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/03/06/seheri-swint-luce-scholarship/
Johns Hopkins student-filmmaker awarded prestigious Luce Scholarship | Hub
Saralyn Cruickshank
Johns Hopkins student-filmmaker awarded prestigious Luce Scholarship Seheri Swint, who aims to shine a light on diverse stories through film, will travel to Asia for a year to work with established filmmakers Image caption: "For people like myself who are empowered through our education, the onus rests upon us to give back and empower others to realize their dreams," says Seheri Swint Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Saralyn Cruickshank / Published March 6, 2018 Every Thursday at 4 o'clock, Seheri Swint and her classmates lug film equipment from the JHU-MICA Film Centre on North Avenue six or so blocks to the Village Learning Place in Charles Village. There, the 25-year-old writer, producer, and filmmaker teaches a few dozen Baltimore fifth-graders about documentary filmmaking. "These kids have very little exposure to filmmaking at all," she says. "We teach them camera skills, talk to them about their stories and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/20/luce-scholar-melaku-arega/
Johns Hopkins pre-med student earns coveted Luce Scholarship | Hub
Katie Pearce
Scholarships Johns Hopkins pre-med student earns coveted Luce Scholarship Senior Melaku Arega, a native of Ethiopia, plans to pursue HIV/AIDS work in Asia Image caption: Johns Hopkins senior Melaku Arega Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Feb 20, 2017 Melaku Arega's education has already spanned three continents. Born and raised in Ethiopia, he's now in his final semester at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, after studying abroad in England last year. Next, he'll add Asia to the list. Arega was selected this month as a Luce Scholar, winning the opportunity to live and work in an Asian city for a year. The program, launched in 1974 by the Henry Luce Foundation, identifies potential future U.S. leaders to promote cross-cultural understanding between the two regions. Arega, a pre-med student at Johns Hopkins majoring in neuroscience and molecular and cellular biology, is one of 18 U.S.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/04/02/porter-schmitt-brooke-owens-fellowship/
Two Johns Hopkins undergrads among recipients of aerospace fellowship | Hub
Sukanya Charuchandra
Two Johns Hopkins undergrads among recipients of aerospace fellowship Sophia Porter, Courtney Schmitt among 41 Brooke Owens Fellows, who receive paid summer internships at leading space or aviation companies By Sukanya Charuchandra / Published April 2, 2018 From the first moment Johns Hopkins University undergrads Sophia Porter and Courtney Schmitt learned about outer space, they were captivated. Driven by questions about what lay beyond, they have chosen academic trajectories that will skyrocket them into the aerospace industry. Porter and Schmitt are among 41 young women selected as 2018 Brooke Owens Fellows. The fellowship offers them the opportunity to complete a paid summer internship at one of a wide range of leading space or aviation companies across the country. They will also be mentored by successful men and women from the aerospace world and have the opportunity to make connections that will help shape their future careers. Image caption: Sophia Porter
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/08/07/summer-gigs-sophia-porter/
Out of this world: Working on the International Space Station project | Hub
Sophia Porter
Summer Gigs Out of this world: Working on the International Space Station project Hopkins students tell us what they're up to during summer break By Sophia Porter / Published Aug 7, 2017 I stepped into the D.C. Metro station with a handful of people from the International Space Station Conference. Our conversation paused as we approached a mother struggling to balance a two-seat stroller on the escalator, her toddler son trailing behind. A man from my group offered his hand to the toddler and they rode down the escalator together. As I watched the mother ferry her children into the train car, it struck me that the boy would never know he'd been helped down an escalator by a man who had piloted a spacecraft. Image caption: Sophia Porter meets astronaut Chris Cassidy in the foyer of the Rayburn House Office Building Image credit: Sophia Porter Interning in the International
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/04/18/samuel-kebede-gates-cambridge-scholar/
2015 Hopkins grad Samuel Kebede named Gates Cambridge Scholar | Hub
Saralyn Cruickshank
2015 Hopkins grad Samuel Kebede named Gates Cambridge Scholar Kebede, whose parents worked for the World Health Organization, says his understanding of medicine was influenced by his childhood in Ethiopia, Zimbabwe, and the Congo By Saralyn Cruickshank / Published April 18, 2018 Samuel Kebede says his understanding of medicine was a function of his upbringing. As the son of two World Health Organization officers, the 25-year-old Johns Hopkins alum witnessed firsthand how culture can affect a person's health. Image caption: Samuel Kebede "I grew up in Ethiopia, Zimbabwe, and the Congo and saw their different cultures and the different public health challenges they faced," he says. "It instilled in me the idea that health, at the end of the day, is very intertwined with disparities you see in governance, resource availability, and the economy." Kebede, who graduated from Hopkins with a bachelor's degree in public health in 2015 and is
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/28/katherine-robinson-gates-cambridge-scholar-ted-hughes/
2012 Johns Hopkins graduate named Gates Cambridge Scholar | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
2012 Johns Hopkins graduate named Gates Cambridge Scholar Writer Katherine Robinson will study connections between 20th century poet Ted Hughes and medieval Celtic folklore By Saralyn Lyons / Published Feb 28, 2017 Katherine Robinson uses three different translation dictionaries in her work, but she isn't learning a new language. She's learning a very, very old language—Middle Welsh, which predates the language of Shakespeare by centuries. Image caption: Katherine Robinson in Wales Robinson has been familiarizing herself with the medieval language as part of the prep work for her dissertation research, which she'll undertake as part of the prestigious Gates Cambridge Scholarship program. Established in October 2000 by a donation from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Gates Cambridge Scholarship program welcomes students from outside the U.K. to pursue a full-time postgraduate degree at the University of Cambridge. Robinson is one of 36 American scholars to be selected from about
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/02/18/stephen-filippone-gates-cambridge-scholarship/
Hopkins senior to use Gates Cambridge Scholarship to study low-cost solar cells | Hub
Lisa De Nike Ercolano
Hopkins senior to use Gates Cambridge Scholarship to study low-cost solar cells Stephen Filippone among 40 U.S. recipients of prestigious honor By Lisa De Nike Ercolano / Published Feb 18, 2014 Stephen Filippone, a senior at Johns Hopkins University, has been selected as a recipient of a prestigious Gates Cambridge Scholarships for 2014-2015. Image caption: Stephen Filippone Gates Cambridge Scholarships recognize young people whose work has the potential for social/philanthropic impact by underwriting the cost of graduate degrees in any field at the University of Cambridge. Forty students representing 35 U.S. institutions were selected for scholarships this year. At Cambridge, Filippone will pursue an MPhil in physics, studying the efficiency of conjugated polymer solar cells under the direction of Sir Richard Friend. Low-cost organic solar cells have great potential for providing inexpensive electricity to people living without it. "The fact that I got the Gates and am going to Cambridge
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/12/12/anna-wherry-marshall-scholarship/
Johns Hopkins senior Anna Wherry among 34 Marshall Scholarship recipients | Hub
Jill Rosen
Johns Hopkins senior Anna Wherry among 34 Marshall Scholarship recipients She has dedicated her studies to the plight of displaced persons By Jill Rosen / Published Dec 12, 2013 Anna Wherry, a Johns Hopkins University senior from Frederick, Md., who has dedicated her studies to the plight of displaced persons, has won a Marshall Scholarship, a prestigious award designed to enable future leaders to study in the United Kingdom. Image caption: Anna Wherry The 21-year-old, who is double majoring in public health and anthropology, is one of 34 students chosen from the United States for the scholarship. She will enroll in Oxford University's Refugee and Forced Migration Studies program and also pursue a master's degree in social anthropology from the University of Edinburgh. Understanding displacement became personally important to Wherry after her family adopted a sister and brother from Colombia. Earlier this year, as part of a Johns Hopkins Woodrow
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/01/28/jhu-mcpherson-churchill-scholarship/
JHU senior Malinda McPherson receives prestigious Churchill Scholarship | Hub
Jill Rosen
JHU senior Malinda McPherson receives prestigious Churchill Scholarship She developed experiment to study brain activity during jazz improvisation By Jill Rosen / Published Jan 28, 2014 Malinda McPherson, a Johns Hopkins University senior from Belmont, Mass., has won a scholarship from the Winston Churchill Foundation of the United States to study at the University of Cambridge in England. Image caption: Malinda McPherson Image credit: Courtesy David Friedlander The Churchill Scholarship is awarded annually to at least 14 students who have demonstrated a capacity to contribute to the advancement of knowledge in the sciences, engineering, or mathematics by completing original, creative work at an advanced level. McPherson is majoring in cognitive science and minoring in music, with the hopes of becoming a neuroscience research professor studying the effect of music on the brain. She will use her award to further her studies at Cambridge, where she expects to complete a Master
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/21/fulbright-fellows-top-producing/
18 Johns Hopkins students earn Fulbright fellowships | Hub
Hub staff report
18 Johns Hopkins students earn Fulbright fellowships JHU again among nation's top producers of Fulbright recipients By Hub staff report / Published Feb 21, 2017 Johns Hopkins University is once again one of the nation's schools with the most recipients of Fulbright scholarships, according to the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. The annual list of "top-producing institutions" was announced today in The Chronicle of Higher Education. With 18 grants in the 2016-17 cycle, Johns Hopkins is among 40 universities to earn the designation. The Fulbright Program is the U.S. government's flagship international educational exchange program. The Institute of International Education administers the Fulbright U.S. Student Program on behalf of the Department of State. The Fulbright Program also awards grants to U.S. scholars, teachers, and faculty to conduct research and teach overseas. Since its inception in 1946, the Fulbright Program has provided more than 370,000 awards
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/04/24/wesley-fuhrman-schmidt-science-fellows/
Johns Hopkins PhD student wins $100,000 fellowship endowed by former Google CEO | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins PhD student wins $100,000 fellowship endowed by former Google CEO Wesley Fuhrman recognized by the Schmidt Science Fellows Program for his outstanding research into topological insulators By Hub staff report / Published April 24, 2018 Johns Hopkins doctoral candidate Wesley Fuhrman has been selected as an inaugural Schmidt Science Fellow for his research into a promising but mysterious class of quantum materials called topological insulators. Image caption: Wesley Fuhrman Endowed by Eric Schmidt, the former CEO of Google, and his wife, philanthropist Wendy Schmidt, the fellowship program seeks to support the next generation of scientific leaders, giving them the tools and opportunities they need to drive world-changing innovations. Winners receive a $100,000 award. "The next frontiers of scientific discovery will be pioneered by those who can transcend the traditional boundaries of science, using techniques from multiple scientific fields to tackle society's longstanding challenges," Eric Schmidt said. "The first
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/05/31/astronaut-scholars-vinay-ayyappan-melissa-mai/
 Two Johns Hopkins students among 50 nationwide to earn Astronaut Scholarships | Hub
Saralyn Cruickshank
Two Johns Hopkins students among 50 nationwide to earn Astronaut Scholarships Vinay Ayyappan, Melissa Mai selected for academic, research merit By Saralyn Cruickshank / Published May 31, 2018 Two Johns Hopkins undergraduate students, Vinay Ayyappan and Melissa Mai, are among 50 individuals from 36 U.S. universities to earn Astronaut Scholarships in recognition of their academic merit and promise in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics. Image caption: Vinay Ayyappan and Melissa Mai Established in 1984, the Astronaut Scholarship Foundation supports students who pursue scientific education to keep America a leader in technology. The scholarship was founded by a group of astronauts—Scott Carpenter, Gordon Cooper, John Glenn, Walter Schirra, Alan Shepard, and Deke Slayton—who were test pilots when NASA recruited them for space missions in 1959. Ayyappan, a rising junior at Hopkins, first became interested in a career in science and medicine in high school, when two of his classmates and a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/07/11/alfred-chin-astronaut-scholarship/
Aspiring doctor is first Johns Hopkins student to earn Astronaut Scholarship  | Hub
Hub staff report
Aspiring doctor is first Johns Hopkins student to earn Astronaut Scholarship Rising senior Alfred Chin pursuing a double major in neuroscience, biophysics By Hub staff report / Published July 11, 2017 Rising senior Alfred Chin is the first Johns Hopkins University student to receive the Astronaut Scholarship, an award founded by the first U.S. astronauts, collectively dubbed the Mercury Seven. Image caption: Alfred Chin at work in the Solomon Snyder lab Established in 1984, the Astronaut Scholarship Foundation encourages students to pursue scientific education in order to keep America a leader in technology. The Mercury Seven astronauts who founded the foundation—Scott Carpenter, Gordon Cooper, John Glenn, Walter Schirra, Alan Shepard, and Deke Slayton—were test pilots who were among the first Americans recruited by NASA for space missions in 1959. Chin, 21, is a neuroscience and biophysics double major. He works in a lab at JHU's Department of Neuroscience, where his
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/04/11/2017-goldwater-scholars/
Three Johns Hopkins juniors named Goldwater Scholars | Hub
Hub staff report
Three Johns Hopkins juniors named Goldwater Scholars Alfred Chin, Duy Phan, Fernando Vicente Zegarra recognized for academic merit in STEM fields Image caption: Goldwater Scholarship winners (from left) Alfred Chin, Duy Phan, and Fernando Vicente By Hub staff report / Published April 11, 2017 Three Johns Hopkins juniors who have demonstrated outstanding promise in research careers have been recognized by the national Goldwater Scholarship program. Alfred Chin, Duy Phan, and Fernando Vicente Zegarra were named Goldwater Scholars. A fourth Johns Hopkins student, Darius Mostaghimi, received honorable mention recognition. Established in 1986, the Goldwater Scholarship was one of the first significant national scholarships focusing on STEM fields (science, technology, engineering, and math). Winners are nominated by their schools and selected for their academic merit. This year, 250 scholarships were awarded to students from an applicant pool of 1,286. The program awards winners $7,500 to apply toward tuition, fees, books, and room
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/26/goldwater-scholarship-awards/
Four Johns Hopkins undergrads honored by Goldwater Scholarship program | Hub
Hub staff report
Four Johns Hopkins undergrads honored by Goldwater Scholarship program Award recognizes exceptional promise in research careers in STEM fields By Hub staff report / Published April 26, 2016 Four Johns Hopkins undergraduate students have received honors from the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Program in recognition of their exceptional promise in research careers. Image caption: 2016 Goldwater Scholarship Award honorees, from left: Vikas Daggubati, Nicole Michelson, Miguel Sobral, and Felipe d'Andrea Juniors Vikas Daggubati, Nicole Michelson, and Miguel Sobral each won a Goldwater Scholarship, and junior Felipe d'Andrea received an honorable mention. Congress established the scholarship in 1986 to honor Sen. Barry Goldwater, who served his country for 56 years as a soldier and statesman, including 30 years of service in the U.S. Senate. A Goldwater Scholarship distinction is considered a gateway award for its reputation for giving students a competitive edge when pursuing graduate fellowships in their
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/30/nih-scholarship-duy-phan/
By studying the brain, NIH scholarship recipient experiences 'the joy of discovery' | Hub
Katie Pearce
By studying the brain, NIH scholarship recipient experiences 'the joy of discovery' Rising junior Duy Phan, a neuroscience major, is one of two JHU students to earn a coveted NIH Undergraduate Scholarship Image caption: Duy Phan By Katie Pearce / Published Aug 30, 2016 Growing up, Duy Phan believed he'd become a classical pianist. And today, at 20 years old, he is. But he's also a budding neuroscientist. Phan, a junior at Johns Hopkins University, has more hands-on research under his belt than many accomplished graduate students. By the time he was 14, he was already working in a research lab. He spent this past summer in a neuroscience lab in Tokyo, studying the brain mechanisms of the chemical senses. And now he has something lined up for next summer, too: work with the National Institutes of Health. "Coming here, you realize that America is a place where you have
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/29/gilman-scholars-hopkins-summer-2016/
 Four Hopkins students awarded Gilman Scholarship to study abroad this summer | Hub
Hub staff report
Four Hopkins students awarded Gilman Scholarship to study abroad this summer By Hub staff report / Published April 29, 2016 Four Johns Hopkins University students will be heading abroad this summer—to Peru, Senegal, Japan, and Jordan—as winners of the Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship. Image caption: The four students awarded Gilman Scholarships are (clockwise from top left): Clara Molineros, Duy Phan, Rocio Oliva, and Madeleine Uraih Sponsored by the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, the scholarship aims to diversify the U.S. students who study and intern internationally, and the countries and regions where they go. The Hopkins honorees—Clara Molineros, Rocio Oliva, Duy Phan, and Madeleine Uraih—are among more than 250 Gilman Scholars who will be pursuing studies or career-oriented internships this summer. Funded by Congress, the scholarship supports students who have been traditionally under-represented in education abroad, providing up to $5,000 to each recipient. The
http://hub.jhu.edu/
Home                 | Hub

Entrepreneurship HopStart challenge showcases student start-ups Published May 13, 2024 Cross-disciplinary teams pitched plans for an at-home glaucoma sensor, a hub for music-related services, biodegradable fishing nets, and more Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Photos This week in Jay-PEGs Published May 9, 2024 Highlights from this week include a robotics show-down and tons of grad photos Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Campus close-up Strolling toward Commencement Published May 7, 2024 Students and families countdown to the big day: Thursday, May 23 University, protesters agree to end Homewood encampment Published May 12, 2024 Student protesters agree to remove encampment on Sunday, May 12; university promises a timely review of divestment question and to conclude encampment-related student conduct proceedings Artificial intelligence Chatbots tell people what they want to hear Published May 13, 2024 A Johns Hopkins-led team found that chatbots reinforce our biases, providing insight into how AI
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/12/nih-scholarship-george-mwinnyaa/
 NIH scholarship recipient follows winding path from Ghana to Johns Hopkins | Hub
Katie Pearce
NIH scholarship recipient follows winding path from Ghana to Johns Hopkins Rising senior George Mwinnyaa, a public health studies major, is one of two JHU students to earn a coveted NIH Undergraduate Scholarship Image caption: George Mwinnyaa Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Aug 12, 2016 The start to George Mwinnyaa's higher education experience in America was a humbling one. At 25, he was living with his wife outside Reno, Nevada, working as a school custodian as he applied to community colleges. A few programs turned him down. Back home, in Ghana, he'd been a community health worker. But he had no high school transcripts to show. Finally, after scoring well on an entrance exam, he got a chance to take a few classes at Western Nevada College. "I always saw myself as being the last," Mwinnyaa says. "That made me work harder, and
http://hub.jhu.edu/at-work
 Hub At Work                 | Hub

ADVANCING YOUR CAREER JHU announces Career Architecture Project Published May 3, 2024 Jenny Winter often opens emails from managers looking for her guidance on advising staff who want to grow in their careers but who have no idea how to do it. Sometimes she can help, sometimes she can’t. “Right now, there isn’t always a defined pathway,” says Winter, director of Compensation for Johns Hopkins University. “There’s not one place to point them to. We don’t always have a clear structure for job growth.” But, she adds, “soon, we will.” Milestones: May 2024 May 2, 2024 JHU's Mind Your Health Challenge begins May 1 April 11, 2024 The TA team brings thousands of new employees to JHU each year April 11, 2024 Faculty appointments and promotions: January and March April 26, 2024 Approved AI meeting assistant now available in Zoom Feb 27, 2024 Faculty Staff Students Top Announcements JHU Staff
http://hub.jhu.edu/at-work/
Hub At Work                 | Hub

ADVANCING YOUR CAREER JHU announces Career Architecture Project Published May 3, 2024 Jenny Winter often opens emails from managers looking for her guidance on advising staff who want to grow in their careers but who have no idea how to do it. Sometimes she can help, sometimes she can’t. “Right now, there isn’t always a defined pathway,” says Winter, director of Compensation for Johns Hopkins University. “There’s not one place to point them to. We don’t always have a clear structure for job growth.” But, she adds, “soon, we will.” Milestones: May 2024 May 2, 2024 JHU's Mind Your Health Challenge begins May 1 April 11, 2024 The TA team brings thousands of new employees to JHU each year April 11, 2024 Faculty appointments and promotions: January and March April 26, 2024 Approved AI meeting assistant now available in Zoom Feb 27, 2024 Faculty Staff Students Top Announcements JHU Staff
http://hub.jhu.edu/events/
 Events                 | Hub

Events Submit an Event Subscribe to events Date range Date Range Categories Arts+Culture Comedy Dance Exhibitions Film Literature + Poetry Museums + Libraries Music Theater Visual Arts Close filters Student Life Academics + Research Careers + Networking Club Meetings Fraternity + Sorority Life Health + Wellness Information Sessions Outreach + Service Religious Activities Social Events Speakers Close filters Lectures + Symposiums Business Education Health International Relations + Foreign Policy Science + Technology Social Sciences + Humanities Close filters Community Seniors Youth Spanish Language Small Business Health Care Food Access Blood Drives Close filters At Work Benefits Faculty + Staff Honors Fun Stuff Training + Workshops Close filters Athletics Men's Cross Country Women's Cross Country Men's Soccer Women's Soccer Football Field Hockey Volleyball Water Polo Men's Basketball Women's Basketball Men's Swimming Women's Swimming Wrestling Men's Track Women's Track Baseball Men's Tennis Women's Tennis Men's Fencing Women's Fencing Men's Lacrosse Women's Lacrosse
http://hub.jhu.edu/health/
 Health                 | Hub

Health Weight loss Benefits of intermittent fasting questioned Published April 22, 2024 Both time-restricted eating and regularly planned meals led to similar weight loss results, suggesting that total calories may be more important than meal timing Health Policy Forum ARPA-H leaders discuss new 'medical moonshots' funding Published May 3, 2024 Medicine Dean Theodore DeWeese discusses the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health with Renee Wegrzyn, Kimberley Steele Environmental health The impact of cigarette butts Published April 22, 2024 Cigarette butts are the most littered item on the planet. Two new studies from the Institute for Global Tobacco Control point to possible solutions. 3 questions EPA phases out PFAS Published April 19, 2024 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency imposes first-ever regulations limiting chemicals known as PFAS, or forever chemicals, in drinking water Study suggests adolescent stress may raise risk of postpartum depression in adults April 18, 2024 Let's talk about childhood injury
http://hub.jhu.edu/magazine/
 Johns Hopkins Magazine                 | Hub

Space exploration A bigger, bolder moon shot Published Spring 2024 NASA's ambitious moon return involves plans to build a long-term human presence in the solar system / Johns Hopkins Magazine SPRING 2024 More from our most recent issue An inside look at NASA’s ambitious moon mission—plus a Cold War retrospective, the Hopkins literary journal that could, a da Vinci-inspired drone, and more in the spring issue of Johns Hopkins Magazine. Apes remember old friends Published Spring 2024 A study on apes' surprisingly long memories offers new insight into the evolutionary origins of human social memory / Johns Hopkins Magazine Chords against cancer Published Spring 2024 A Johns Hopkins oncologist finds an unlikely side gig—guitarist in Paul Reed Smith's rock band / Johns Hopkins Magazine Shifting Perspectives Published Spring 2024 Meet the six Baltimore-based artists whose work will be on permanent display at Johns Hopkins, helping to celebrate the city's flourishing
http://hub.jhu.edu/search/
Search                 | Hub

Search Search on Google, or enable JavaScript to search here.
http://hub.jhu.edu/student-life/
 Student Life                 | Hub

Student Life Entrepreneurship HopStart challenge showcases student start-ups Published May 13, 2024 Cross-disciplinary teams pitched plans for an at-home glaucoma sensor, a hub for music-related services, biodegradable fishing nets, and more Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Photos This week in Jay-PEGs Published May 9, 2024 Highlights from this week include a robotics show-down and tons of grad photos Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Campus close-up Strolling toward Commencement Published May 7, 2024 Students and families countdown to the big day: Thursday, May 23 Commencement 2024 Kristen Corlay Sanmiguel selected as student speaker Published April 29, 2024 Civil engineering major elected by senior class to speak at this year's universitywide Commencement ceremony on May 23 Hopkins welcomes admitted transfer students for the fall semester May 10, 2024 Johns Hopkins junior Jackson Morris receives Truman Scholarship April 18, 2024 Studio North marks 10 years of student filmmaking April
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/gilman-scholarship/articles/
 Gilman scholarship | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Gilman scholarship Study Abroad 4 named Gilman Scholars Published April 29, 2016 Scholarship will support summer studies in Japan, Peru, France, Senegal, Jordan
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/infectious-disease/articles/
 Infectious disease | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Infectious disease Health care innovations Simple spray could keep COVID away Published Jan 12, 2023 Hopkins engineers have developed a method to prevent harmful viruses from entering the lungs, blocking the spread of COVID-19 and influenza with a nasal spray Voices What you need to know about monkeypox Published May 24, 2022 As monkeypox spreads beyond the expected areas, an infectious disease expert offers insight on how the virus spreads—and why it shouldn't be a cause for alarm Infectious disease Current mRNA vaccines may elicit immune responses to other bat coronaviruses, study finds Published Feb 18, 2022 Finding by Johns Hopkins Medicine researchers may help in development of vaccines against future animal-to-human viral diseases What our wastewater can tell us Published Spring 2021 Our sewage contains important biomarkers that can tell researchers about a community's diet, drug intake, and even the presence of COVID-19 / Johns Hopkins Magazine
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/nih/articles/
 Nih | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Nih 3 Questions NIH adds people with disabilities to health disparity research Published Oct 2, 2023 As a newly designated 'health disparity population,' people with disabilities will be included in more research related to health inequities Student scholar 'A door-opening opportunity' Published Aug 12, 2016 Rising senior George Mwinnyaa, a public health studies major, earns coveted NIH Undergraduate Scholarship
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/public-health/articles/
 Public health | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Public health Q+A What's happening with dairy cows and bird flu? Published April 15, 2024 Though the virus is circulating in dairy cows, human exposure remains low, Johns Hopkins public health experts say Public health New playbook for addressing health misinformation Published March 6, 2024 The guide offers a hands-on approach to help public health practitioners, medical professionals, and health communicators recognize and respond to health-related rumors and misinformation Gun violence What the conviction of a school shooter's parent could mean Published March 1, 2024 Recent conviction of Michigan mother underscores role of safe storage and Child Access Protection laws in preventing gun violence, Hopkins expert says Politics+Society Public health discourse takes center stage Published Feb 20, 2024 Dramatic readings from Henrik Ibsen's 1882 play 'An Enemy of the People' will pair with guided discussions during two performances in D.C. this week Q+A Unreliable mass transit and public
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/scholarships/articles/
 Scholarships | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Scholarships Awards+Honors Two alums named Knight-Hennessy Scholars Published May 8, 2024 Ank Agarwal and Anson Zhou will receive up to three years of tuition at Stanford University, along with stipends for living costs, academic expenses, and travel Undergraduate honors Junior receives Truman Scholarship Published April 18, 2024 The Truman Scholarship recognizes outstanding undergraduates who are pursuing careers in public service Awards+Honors Ishan Kalburge awarded Gates Cambridge Scholarship Published Feb 23, 2024 Kalburge will investigate how humans form internal representations of uncertainty during decision-making Awards+Honors Nursing student named Mitchell Scholar Published Dec 4, 2023 School of Nursing student Isabel Plakas, one of 12 students selected nationwide, will study addiction recovery at Trinity College Dublin next year Undergraduate honors Rising senior earns Beinecke Scholarship Published July 6, 2023 Kendra Brewer plans to use funds to support her study of Indigenous art history Awards+Honors PhD student named Apple Scholar Published May
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/study-abroad/articles/
 Study abroad | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Study abroad Undergraduate education A gateway to D.C. Published March 19, 2024 New Hopkins Semester D.C. program allows undergrads to pursue internships while living in the nation's capital Choose your own adventure Published Summer 2023 The Phares Family Grant for International Engagement supports rising juniors and seniors who travel abroad for independent research / Johns Hopkins Magazine COVID-19 University suspends spring study abroad Published March 12, 2020 New coronavirus advisories prompt decision to return undergraduates to permanent residences JHU evaluates study abroad programs in areas hit by coronavirus Published March 4, 2020 Study abroad programs have been suspended in Italy and South Korea, and SAIS campuses in China and Italy have moved all courses online Student scholars Fulbright awardees live, work, and learn abroad Published Feb 24, 2020 The university ranks among the nation's top producers of Fulbright U.S. students with 21 during the 2019-20 cycle, the most
http://hub.jhu.edu/topics/health/articles/2/
 Health | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Health 3 Questions What happens if the Supreme Court limits mifepristone? Published March 26, 2024 Johns Hopkins expert Suzanne Bell explains the possible reproductive health impacts of limiting access to a pill that has been safely used by millions of people 3 Questions Why the U.S. health system needs redesign Published March 8, 2024 Hopkins Nursing policy expert Vincent Guilamo-Ramos makes the case for a nurse-led approach to health care that focuses on prevention and equity Expert insights Are nicotine pouches safe? Published March 8, 2024 Smoke-free, flavored nicotine pouches, including the brand Zyn, are going viral on TikTok. A Johns Hopkins expert weighs in on their safety. Public health New playbook for addressing health misinformation Published March 6, 2024 The guide offers a hands-on approach to help public health practitioners, medical professionals, and health communicators recognize and respond to health-related rumors and misinformation Gun violence What the
http://hub.jhu.edu/topics/student-life/articles/2/
 Student Life | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Student Life Science shows Baltimore's cats are friendly little guys Published April 1, 2024 Postdoc Charlotte Fare has conducted a semi-quantitative analysis of the cats of Baltimore, surveying the appearance and disposition of a subset of the city's felines Commencement 2024 Mitt Romney named Commencement speaker Published March 28, 2024 U.S. senator and 2012 Republican presidential nominee will address the Class of 2024 on May 23 Community Hopkins athletes give back to Baltimore Published March 25, 2024 Blue Jays for Baltimore, a charity founded by current Hopkins football players, uses sports to improve youth well-being in Baltimore Undergraduate admissions Hopkins adds to its Class of 2028 Published March 20, 2024 The 1,749 students offered admission have the opportunity to join 809 students previously admitted to the class in the Early Decision cohorts Undergraduate education A gateway to D.C. Published March 19, 2024 New Hopkins Semester D.C. program allows
http://hub.jhu.edu/university-news/
 University News                 | Hub

University News Faculty Honors Lilliana Mason awarded Carnegie Fellowship Published May 8, 2024 An associate professor of political science at the SNF Agora Institute of Johns Hopkins University, Mason is one of 28 scholars receiving grants of up to $200,000 to research political polarization University, protesters agree to end Homewood encampment Published May 12, 2024 Student protesters agree to remove encampment on Sunday, May 12; university promises a timely review of divestment question and to conclude encampment-related student conduct proceedings Undergraduate admissions JHU admits transfer students for fall Published May 10, 2024 Community organizers, military veterans, and inventors among students invited to transfer to Hopkins University Education Forum gives new insights to Hopkins educators Published May 7, 2024 The Provost's DELTA Teaching Forum included a keynote from Arthur Levine, author of 'The Great Upheaval' and a plenary performance by artists from the Peabody Conservatory Johns Hopkins announces six honorary degree
http://hub.jhu.edu/topics/university-news/articles/2/
 University News | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles University News Health policy ARPA-H leaders to participate in Health Policy Forum discussion Published April 29, 2024 Renee Wegrzyn, director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health, and Kimberley Steele, ARPA-H program manager, join Medicine Dean Theodore DeWeese for a conversation on April 30 Commencement 2024 Kristen Corlay Sanmiguel selected as student speaker Published April 29, 2024 Civil engineering major elected by senior class to speak at this year's universitywide Commencement ceremony on May 23 Faculty honors Two elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences Published April 25, 2024 Diane Griffin, Du Yun among 250 individuals recognized for leadership, multidisciplinary work, and achievements in advancing the common good Faculty honors Muyinatu Bell receives Alan T. Waterman Award Published April 24, 2024 Recognized for her pioneering research spanning photoacoustic and ultrasound imaging, Bell is first Hopkins winner in the award's 48-year history Names+Narratives JHU celebrates faculty diversity
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/29/gilman-scholars-hopkins-summer-2016/
Four Hopkins students awarded Gilman Scholarship to study abroad this summer | Hub
Hub staff report
Four Hopkins students awarded Gilman Scholarship to study abroad this summer By Hub staff report / Published April 29, 2016 Four Johns Hopkins University students will be heading abroad this summer—to Peru, Senegal, Japan, and Jordan—as winners of the Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship. Image caption: The four students awarded Gilman Scholarships are (clockwise from top left): Clara Molineros, Duy Phan, Rocio Oliva, and Madeleine Uraih Sponsored by the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, the scholarship aims to diversify the U.S. students who study and intern internationally, and the countries and regions where they go. The Hopkins honorees—Clara Molineros, Rocio Oliva, Duy Phan, and Madeleine Uraih—are among more than 250 Gilman Scholars who will be pursuing studies or career-oriented internships this summer. Funded by Congress, the scholarship supports students who have been traditionally under-represented in education abroad, providing up to $5,000 to each recipient. The
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/12/nih-scholarship-george-mwinnyaa/
NIH scholarship recipient follows winding path from Ghana to Johns Hopkins | Hub
Katie Pearce
NIH scholarship recipient follows winding path from Ghana to Johns Hopkins Rising senior George Mwinnyaa, a public health studies major, is one of two JHU students to earn a coveted NIH Undergraduate Scholarship Image caption: George Mwinnyaa Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Aug 12, 2016 The start to George Mwinnyaa's higher education experience in America was a humbling one. At 25, he was living with his wife outside Reno, Nevada, working as a school custodian as he applied to community colleges. A few programs turned him down. Back home, in Ghana, he'd been a community health worker. But he had no high school transcripts to show. Finally, after scoring well on an entrance exam, he got a chance to take a few classes at Western Nevada College. "I always saw myself as being the last," Mwinnyaa says. "That made me work harder, and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/05/17/johns-hopkins-students-receive-fulbright-scholarships/
14 Johns Hopkins students receive Fulbright grants to study, teach, conduct research abroad | Hub
Jill Rosen
14 Johns Hopkins students receive Fulbright grants to study, teach, conduct research abroad By Jill Rosen / Published May 17, 2017 Fourteen Johns Hopkins University students and recent graduates have been awarded Fulbright grants, earning the chance to travel abroad to study, teach, and conduct research. Named for the late Sen. J. William Fulbright, who sponsored legislation creating the prestigious scholarship, the Fulbright Scholar Program is the country's largest educational exchange program, offering opportunities for students and young professionals to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and school teaching worldwide. Approximately 8,000 grants are awarded each year, and the program operates in more than 155 countries. With the Fulbright Study/Research grant, a student designs a proposal for a specific country. The program aims to facilitate cultural exchange and promote mutual understanding by supporting study or research abroad. The Johns Hopkins recipients are: Rebecca Anderson, who graduated in December
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/14/fulbright-scholars-2016-top-producers/
Johns Hopkins again among nation's top producers of Fulbright grant recipients | Hub
Jill Rosen
Johns Hopkins again among nation's top producers of Fulbright grant recipients 15 win scholarships to study, teach English, conduct research abroad By Jill Rosen / Published April 14, 2016 Johns Hopkins University is once again among the nation's leaders in Fulbright scholarship winners, according to the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. The annual list of "top-producing institutions" is announced annually in The Chronicle of Higher Education. With 15 grants awarded in the 2015-16 cycle, Johns Hopkins was among 42 universities to earn the designation. The Fulbright Program is the U.S. government's flagship international educational exchange program. The Institute of International Education administers the Fulbright U.S. Student Program on behalf of the Department of State. The Fulbright Program also awards grants to U.S. scholars, teachers, and faculty to conduct research and teach overseas. Since its inception in 1946, the Fulbright Program has provided more than 360,000
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/11/fulbright-scholars-2015
 15 Johns Hopkins students, recent graduates named Fulbright Scholars | Hub
Jill Rosen
15 Johns Hopkins students, recent graduates named Fulbright Scholars By Jill Rosen / Published May 11, 2015 Editor's note: This article was updated after its original publication date to include the selection of two more Fulbright Scholars from Johns Hopkins University Fifteen Johns Hopkins University students and recent graduates will have the opportunity to travel abroad to such places as Fiji, China, and France to study, teach, and conduct research after recently being named Fulbright Scholars. Named for the late Sen. J. William Fulbright, who sponsored legislation creating the prestigious scholarship, the Fulbright Scholar Program is the country's largest educational exchange program, offering opportunities for students and young professionals to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and school teaching worldwide. Approximately 8,000 grants are awarded each year, and the program operates in more than 155 countries. "Johns Hopkins has been named a top-producing Fulbright institution for the last
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/fulbright-scholars/articles/
 Fulbright scholars | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Fulbright scholars Awards+Honors Fulbright grants in action Published Feb 13, 2024 Six Hopkins Fulbright grantees discuss how they're making an impact abroad and what has been the most rewarding part of their experience Awards+Honors Johns Hopkins named top producer of Fulbright student grantees Published March 14, 2023 The Fulbright U.S. Student Program provides opportunities for students and recent graduates to pursue graduate study, research, and teach English around the world Fulbrights awarded to 20 Johns Hopkins students and alumni Published June 2, 2022 They will embark on research and educational programs around the world to promote cultural exchange LISTENING FOR SOLUTIONS Published Fall 2020 Shivani Mehta is working with rural villagers in India to craft on-the-ground solutions to their public health concerns / Johns Hopkins Magazine Student scholars Fulbright recipients enjoy diverse cultural experiences Published April 18, 2019 Johns Hopkins has ranked among the nation's top producers of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/02/12/fulbright-scholarship-leaders/
Johns Hopkins ranks among top producers of Fulbright Scholars | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins ranks among top producers of Fulbright Scholars By Hub staff report / Published Feb 12, 2015 Johns Hopkins University is once again among the nation's leaders in Fulbright scholarship winners, according to the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. The annual list of "top-producing institutions" was announced today in The Chronicle of Higher Education. With 11 grants in the 2014-15 cycle, Johns Hopkins is among 36 universities to earn the designation. The Fulbright Program is the U.S. government's flagship international educational exchange program. The Institute of International Education administers the Fulbright U.S. Student Program on behalf of the Department of State. The Fulbright Program also awards grants to U.S. scholars, teachers, and faculty to conduct research and teach overseas. Since its inception in 1946, the Fulbright Program has provided more than 360,000 awards to work and study in more than 140 countries. Each year
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/15/johns-hopkins-fulbright-scholars
 Eleven Johns Hopkins students, recent graduates named Fulbright Scholars | Hub
Jill Rosen
Eleven Johns Hopkins students, recent graduates named Fulbright Scholars By Jill Rosen / Published May 15, 2014 Eleven Johns Hopkins University students and recent graduates will have the opportunity to travel abroad to such places as Germany, Malaysia, and Peru to study, teach, and conduct research after recently being named Fulbright Scholars. Named for the late Sen. J. William Fulbright, who sponsored legislation creating the prestigious scholarship, the Fulbright Scholar Program is the country's largest educational exchange program, offering opportunities for students and young professionals to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and school teaching worldwide. Approximately 8,000 grants are awarded each year, and the program operates in more than 155 countries. "For several years Johns Hopkins has been a top-producing university for the Fulbright, and this year, again, we've done very well," said Kelly Barry, the university's scholarship and fellowship officer. "I am exuberant for our Fulbright
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/14/truman-scholarship-falcone/
Johns Hopkins junior Justin Falcone among 59 Truman Scholarship recipients | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins junior Justin Falcone among 59 Truman Scholarship recipients Award recognizes leadership potential, commitment to public service By Hub staff report / Published May 14, 2014 Johns Hopkins junior Justin Falcone, who has dedicated his personal and academic pursuits to studying and addressing the global implications of climate change, was recently named one of 59 recipients of the prestigious Harry S. Truman Scholarship. The awards are given annually to U.S. college undergraduates with demonstrated leadership potential and a commitment to public service. Image caption: Justin Falcone The winners, who represent 52 colleges and universities, were chosen from a group of 655 nominees. Recipients are awarded up to $30,000 for graduate study. Falcone, who is studying environmental archaeology and minoring in global environmental change and sustainability, is the first winner from Johns Hopkins since 2010. He plans to pursue graduate studies in environmental science, management, and policy. "The Truman Scholarship
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/15/johns-hopkins-fulbright-scholars/
 Eleven Johns Hopkins students, recent graduates named Fulbright Scholars | Hub
Jill Rosen
Eleven Johns Hopkins students, recent graduates named Fulbright Scholars By Jill Rosen / Published May 15, 2014 Eleven Johns Hopkins University students and recent graduates will have the opportunity to travel abroad to such places as Germany, Malaysia, and Peru to study, teach, and conduct research after recently being named Fulbright Scholars. Named for the late Sen. J. William Fulbright, who sponsored legislation creating the prestigious scholarship, the Fulbright Scholar Program is the country's largest educational exchange program, offering opportunities for students and young professionals to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and school teaching worldwide. Approximately 8,000 grants are awarded each year, and the program operates in more than 155 countries. "For several years Johns Hopkins has been a top-producing university for the Fulbright, and this year, again, we've done very well," said Kelly Barry, the university's scholarship and fellowship officer. "I am exuberant for our Fulbright
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/11/fulbright-scholars-2015/
15 Johns Hopkins students, recent graduates named Fulbright Scholars | Hub
Jill Rosen
15 Johns Hopkins students, recent graduates named Fulbright Scholars By Jill Rosen / Published May 11, 2015 Editor's note: This article was updated after its original publication date to include the selection of two more Fulbright Scholars from Johns Hopkins University Fifteen Johns Hopkins University students and recent graduates will have the opportunity to travel abroad to such places as Fiji, China, and France to study, teach, and conduct research after recently being named Fulbright Scholars. Named for the late Sen. J. William Fulbright, who sponsored legislation creating the prestigious scholarship, the Fulbright Scholar Program is the country's largest educational exchange program, offering opportunities for students and young professionals to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and school teaching worldwide. Approximately 8,000 grants are awarded each year, and the program operates in more than 155 countries. "Johns Hopkins has been named a top-producing Fulbright institution for the last
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/12/2016-fulbright-scholars-list/
19 Johns Hopkins students, recent graduates named Fulbright Scholars | Hub
Jill Rosen
19 Johns Hopkins students, recent graduates named Fulbright Scholars Grant recipients will travel abroad to study, teach, conduct research By Jill Rosen / Published May 12, 2016 A record number of Johns Hopkins University students and recent graduates—19—have been named Fulbright Scholars, earning the opportunity to travel abroad to such places as Peru, Malaysia, and Spain to study, teach, and conduct research. Named for the late Sen. J. William Fulbright, who sponsored legislation creating the prestigious scholarship, the Fulbright Scholar Program is the country's largest educational exchange program, offering opportunities for students and young professionals to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and school teaching worldwide. Approximately 8,000 grants are awarded each year, and the program operates in more than 155 countries. With the Fulbright Study/Research grant, a student designs a proposal for a specific country. The program aims to facilitate cultural exchange and promote mutual understanding by
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/07/19/study-abroad-cape-town-health-studies/
In Cape Town, Johns Hopkins students gain a global perspective on public health challenges | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Study abroad In Cape Town, Johns Hopkins students gain a global perspective on public health challenges 11 undergraduates complete internships at South Africa nongovernmental organizations By Saralyn Lyons / Published July 19, 2017 She wondered whether it was wise to continue to push herself. The higher they climbed, the more dramatic the slope, and in some places, it became a near-vertical ascent. But the sight of her classmates in front of and behind her, each eager to reach a summit nearly 2,200 feet above sea level, spurred her on. Once she summited Lion's Head in Table Mountain National Park, Toby Harris took in the aerial views of the city sprawling beneath her—a city she had come to know intimately, one she was beginning to feel a part of, and one whose people continually surprised and inspired her. Image caption: The seven who climbed to the top of Lion's Head along
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/23/cbid-design-team-kenya-uganda/
Johns Hopkins students test device designed to help save lives of newborns | Hub
Hub staff report
Global health Johns Hopkins students test device designed to help save lives of newborns Students in Center for Bioengineering and Design master's program design medical devices to solve clinical problems in U.S. and around the world By Hub staff report / Published Sept 23, 2016 Five Johns Hopkins University graduate students embarked this summer on a trip to Kenya and Uganda—with a collection of infant-sized medical manikins in tow. The team, all students in the yearlong master's program in bioengineering innovation and design, spent three weeks field-testing a medical device that could save the lives of newborns by monitoring vital signs during the first week of life—that precarious window of time during which, the World Health Organization estimates, nearly three million infants die each year. Video credit: Polly Ma Neonatal deaths often are caused by preventable conditions such as sepsis, pneumonia, hypothermia, and complications from a preterm birth, said team
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/01/citt-contraceptive-kit/
JHU undergrads design tool to support family planning efforts in developing regions | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
JHU undergrads design tool to support family planning efforts in developing regions New kit may help train global health providers to insert and remove contraceptive implants Image caption: The student inventors of the CITT Kit are, from left: Victor Dadfar, Miguel Sobral, Taylor Lam, Chloe Quinlan, Tommy Athey, Jessica Wu, and Nick Bello. Not pictured: Chris Coughlan Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Phil Sneiderman / Published June 1, 2015 In developing regions where the economy is weak and medical services are limited, global health experts say as many as 200 million women want access to long-term, reversible contraceptives to avoid unintended pregnancies and to help space out the births of their children. Image caption: The prototype training kit includes this practice band that features layers that mimic outer regions of the arm and could help health workers learn to properly insert and remove contraceptive implants Image credit:
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/03/design-day-breast-cancer-treatment-south-africa/
Johns Hopkins student team develops reusable cryotherapy device to help treat breast cancer in rural South Africa | Hub
Karen Blum
Johns Hopkins student team develops reusable cryotherapy device to help treat breast cancer in rural South Africa Image caption: BME undergraduate students (from left to right) Monica Rex, Ben Lee, and Sonia Trukru are part of a nine-member team working to find a new treatment option for breast cancer patients, who live in low-resource areas such as South Africa By Karen Blum / Published May 3, 2016 When radiologist Susan Harvey, director of breast imaging at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, was searching for ways to improve access to breast cancer diagnostics and therapeutics in South Africa, she turned to the Johns Hopkins Center for Bioengineering Innovation and Design, which focuses on training the next generation of biomedical engineers. Monica Rex, a senior biomedical engineering and Spanish major from Orlando, Florida, and her five-member student design team jumped at the idea. Within a month of meeting last summer, Rex
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/02/engineering-design-days-2016
 Johns Hopkins students to show off creative solutions to real-world problems at annual Design Days | Hub
Lisa Ercolano
Johns Hopkins students to show off creative solutions to real-world problems at annual Design Days Video: Johns Hopkins Whiting School of Engineering By Lisa Ercolano / Published May 2, 2016 It's crunch time across the Whiting School of Engineering, as students labor—sometimes around the clock—in laboratories and design spaces to put the finishing touches on projects. Their creations range from a small hovering aircraft that can land in a tree branch as effortlessly as a bird to a hand-held device that enables breast cancer treatment in rural clinics. "If we haven't been here quite 24 hours a day, it sometimes feels like it," says David Levi, a senior mechanical engineering major, looking around the department's cluttered senior design space in the basement of the Wyman Park building, where he and teammates are refining their prototype. "It's lucky that we have this awesome area with couches, so we can crash if
http://hub.jhu.edu/science-technology/
 Science+Technology                 | Hub

Science+Technology Chemistry Potential tool against harmful insects Published May 13, 2024 A way to curb nagging insects has been flying under our radar—an enzyme from fruit fly testes. The compound could control bugs that carry disease and harm crops by stunting their ability to procreate, Johns Hopkins University researchers found. Entrepreneurship HopStart challenge showcases student start-ups Published May 13, 2024 Cross-disciplinary teams pitched plans for an at-home glaucoma sensor, a hub for music-related services, biodegradable fishing nets, and more Electrical Engineering Sparking hope for migraine relief Published April 29, 2024 Johns Hopkins electrical engineering students are developing a device targeting the root cause of chronic headaches Faculty honors Muyinatu Bell receives Alan T. Waterman Award Published April 24, 2024 Recognized for her pioneering research spanning photoacoustic and ultrasound imaging, Bell is first Hopkins winner in the award's 48-year history 'Surprisingly strategic' mice think like babies April 26, 2024 Easy EKG
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/design-days/articles/
 Design days | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Design days Electrical Engineering Sparking hope for migraine relief Published April 29, 2024 Johns Hopkins electrical engineering students are developing a device targeting the root cause of chronic headaches Mechanical engineering Students aim to take the bite out of noisy dental drills Published April 29, 2024 Mechanical engineering majors at Johns Hopkins created a device that dampens the din of dental drills during procedures Engineering Easy EKG for a chimpanzee Published April 26, 2024 Whiting School undergraduates created PulseApe: a primate-friendly trapeze bar fitted with EKG sensors to capture the chimps' heart activity while they play and swing Design day Solving puzzles for prey at the Maryland Zoo Published April 26, 2024 Johns Hopkins undergraduate engineers bring the thrill of the hunt to bobcats Kilgore and Josie with their high-tech take on the classic 'Whac-A-Mole' arcade game Engineering Student team competes in national hydropower challenge Published April 25,
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/engineering/articles/
 Engineering | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Engineering Hager to head NSF directorate in information science, engineering Published March 14, 2024 The directorate supports research in all areas of computer and information science and engineering, as well as advanced research cyberinfrastructure necessary for discovery in all science and engineering fields Environmental Health Investing in offshore wind energy Published March 4, 2024 JHU and Morgan State researchers team up with the Maryland Energy Administration to grow the local offshore wind industry Tower of power Annual contest gets students noodling around Published Feb 23, 2024 National Engineers Week competition pits area middle schoolers against Hopkins undergrads to build the tallest tower out of pasta and marshmallows Undergraduate honors Sustainable city block earns top-five spot in ASCE competition Published June 26, 2023 The competition encourages students to learn more about sustainability and challenges them to include sustainable practices in engineering design in a practical way Collegiate Inventors Competition
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/undergraduate-research/articles/
 Undergraduate research | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Undergraduate research Undergraduate Honors Two juniors named Goldwater Scholars Published April 5, 2024 Goldwater Scholarship provides financial support to undergraduates pursuing research careers in STEM fields Student research Program funds undergraduate summer research experiences Published Nov 16, 2023 Students chosen for next summer's program will work on independent research projects as members of Hopkins labs Undergraduate honors Rising senior earns Beinecke Scholarship Published July 6, 2023 Kendra Brewer plans to use funds to support her study of Indigenous art history Undergraduate honors Four win Goldwater Scholarships Published June 27, 2023 The scholarship recognizes outstanding research and achievements of students in STEM fields Choose your own adventure Published Summer 2023 The Phares Family Grant for International Engagement supports rising juniors and seniors who travel abroad for independent research / Johns Hopkins Magazine Student spotlight Medical journey comes full circle Published Oct 14, 2022 Johns Hopkins senior Rosa Rodríguez spent
http://hub.jhu.edu/topics/science-technology/articles/2/
 Science+Technology | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Science+Technology Environmental Engineering Student engineers flex their mussels to fight nutrient pollution Published April 25, 2024 A team of undergraduates partnered with Baltimore City to clean up Back River and the Patapsco Faculty honors Muyinatu Bell receives Alan T. Waterman Award Published April 24, 2024 Recognized for her pioneering research spanning photoacoustic and ultrasound imaging, Bell is first Hopkins winner in the award's 48-year history 3 questions EPA phases out PFAS Published April 19, 2024 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency imposes first-ever regulations limiting chemicals known as PFAS, or forever chemicals, in drinking water Faculty honors Six from Hopkins named AAAS Fellows Published April 18, 2024 They are among 502 distinguished scholars recognized this year as fellows of the American Association of the Advancement of Science, the world's largest general scientific society Artificial intelligence Robot tackles trauma's silent killer Published April 16, 2024 Autonomous system devised by a Johns
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/02/engineering-design-days-2016/
Johns Hopkins students to show off creative solutions to real-world problems at annual Design Days | Hub
Lisa Ercolano
Johns Hopkins students to show off creative solutions to real-world problems at annual Design Days Video: Johns Hopkins Whiting School of Engineering By Lisa Ercolano / Published May 2, 2016 It's crunch time across the Whiting School of Engineering, as students labor—sometimes around the clock—in laboratories and design spaces to put the finishing touches on projects. Their creations range from a small hovering aircraft that can land in a tree branch as effortlessly as a bird to a hand-held device that enables breast cancer treatment in rural clinics. "If we haven't been here quite 24 hours a day, it sometimes feels like it," says David Levi, a senior mechanical engineering major, looking around the department's cluttered senior design space in the basement of the Wyman Park building, where he and teammates are refining their prototype. "It's lucky that we have this awesome area with couches, so we can crash if
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/03/ebola-suit-trip-liberia/
Recent Johns Hopkins graduate visits Liberia to see Ebola protective suit in action | Hub
Jessica Ader
Recent Johns Hopkins graduate visits Liberia to see Ebola protective suit in action By Jessica Ader / Published Aug 3, 2016 When asking students about their top 10 places to visit, Liberia isn't a country that you hear often. However, for recent Johns Hopkins University graduate Laura Scavo, it was on the top of her list. Image caption: From left to right: Colby Wilkason, product development manager for Ebola PPE project; Laura Scavo, technical lead on face mask development; Chandrakant Ruparelia, senior technical advisor at Jhpiego; and Patience Osei, product development manager for Ebola PPE. Liberia was of particular interest to Scavo because of its recent outbreak of the Ebola virus. During her last semester as a mechanical engineering major this past spring, Scavo collaborated with the [Johns Hopkins Center for Bioengineering Innovation & Design](http://cbid.bme.jhu.edu) (CBID) to redesign the hood and mask portion of their newly designed Ebola protective suit.
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/22/ebola-suit-improvements-cbid-dupont/
 Breathing easier: Johns Hopkins students develop improvements for Ebola protection suit | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
Breathing easier: Johns Hopkins students develop improvements for Ebola protection suit Mechanical engineering student teams develop prototypes for more comfortable hood and face mask, battery-powered system that lowers humidity By Arthur Hirsch / Published June 22, 2016 For health workers in the field treating people stricken with Ebola and other diseases, a protective suit is the first defense against infection. The suit and head covering itself, however, can hamper the ability to help by impeding breathing, or heating up so quickly in high temperatures and humidity that workers can scarcely wear the suits for more than an hour. Featured CoverageJohns Hopkins responds to EbolaRelevant news coverage and helpful resources related to the Ebola outbreak and how Johns Hopkins is responding at home and abroad Johns Hopkins University engineering students and team members hope to solve these problems as they improve a protective suit to be manufactured by DuPont under an
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/28/hopkins-dupont-ebola-garment-partnership
 Johns Hopkins, DuPont join forces to produce improved Ebola protection suit | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Johns Hopkins, DuPont join forces to produce improved Ebola protection suit First of garments could be available in marketplace in first half of 2016 Image caption: Matt Petney, who served as a project manager at Johns Hopkins during development of the improved Ebola protection suit, helps Allie Sibole, a recent graduate, to don the prototype garment. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Phil Sneiderman / Published Sept 28, 2015 The Johns Hopkins University and DuPont have signed license and collaboration agreements allowing DuPont to commercialize a garment with innovative features from Johns Hopkins to help protect people on the front lines of the Ebola crisis and future deadly infectious disease outbreaks. DuPont intends to have the first of these garments available in the marketplace during the first half of 2016. The collaboration between the major research university and the international science and engineering company began in response to
http://hub.jhu.edu/ebola
Johns Hopkins responds to Ebola                 | Hub

Johns Hopkins responds to Ebola As of April 8, 2015, the outbreak of the deadly Ebola virus has claimed more than 10,000 lives, primarily in the West African countries of Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea. There have been nearly 23,000 reported or suspected cases of the disease. In response to this rapidly evolving public health crisis, Johns Hopkins experts convened in early October to discuss experimental medical countermeasures, recommendations to prevent the spread of the disease, and the complex ethical decisions that need to be made in real-time. Since then, Johns Hopkins experts have worked together to design a prototype protective suit for health workers who treat Ebola patients, and our faculty members have actively worked with the media to share their knowledge about the spread and treatment of the virus. As members of the Johns Hopkins community respond to the outbreak, this page will be updated with relevant information
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/cbid/articles/
 Cbid | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Cbid Bioengineering Johns Hopkins graduate students create a lymphedema detection sensor Published April 28, 2022 Device detects fluid buildup in tissue and alerts patients and their doctors, potentially preventing thousands of cancer patients from developing the debilitating condition Design Day Student engineers perfect their pitches Published May 8, 2017 Video In annual year-end Design Day showcase, students present their research, projects, and prototypes Undergrad research JHU team takes bronze Published Nov 7, 2016 Students place third at Collegiate Inventors Competition with low-cost cryotherapy system to treat breast cancer Undergrad research Top inventors Published Sept 28, 2016 Undergraduate team named finalist in Collegiate Inventors Competition for device that freezes breast cancer tissue Global health Designed to save lives Published Sept 23, 2016 Students in CBID program create medical devices to solve clinical problems in U.S., abroad Ebola Not your typical post-graduation trip Published Aug 3, 2016 Recent graduate Laura
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/ebola/articles/
 Ebola | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Ebola Ebola outbreak In DRC, a public health response in crisis Published June 11, 2019 Despite the slowing spread of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of Congo, experts say the situation isn't likely to get better Ebola virus Protein could be key to Ebola's spread Published Aug 22, 2017 Discovery by JHU researchers plays key role in project that appears to pinpoint what makes deadly virus so contagious Infectious disease Tool draws on lessons learned from U.S. Ebola cases Published June 26, 2017 Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, CDC develop checklist to help communities assess, strengthen preparedness Public health New book chronicles the history of global health interventions Published Fall 2016 Randall Packard's new book chronicles the successes and failures of global health campaigns / Johns Hopkins Magazine Ebola Not your typical post-graduation trip Published Aug 3, 2016 Recent graduate Laura Scavo travels to Liberia to see
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/jhpiego/articles/
 Jhpiego | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Jhpiego Global health Jhpiego's Leslie Mancuso receives Academy of Public Health honor Published Oct 20, 2023 She is among eight recognized by the Nigeria-based organization for 'exceptional leadership, scholarship, and service in the field of public health' Tomorrow's changemakers Published March 8, 2022 A new program developed by two Jhpiego board members fosters the next generation of activists Maternal health Survey identifies troubling effect of pandemic on where women give birth in Ethiopia Published Dec 17, 2020 In urban areas, delivery rates in lower-level health facilities increased and hospital deliveries decreased after social distancing restrictions were put in place World health Study identifies dire economic impact of COVID-19 in Africa Published Oct 15, 2020 Survey finds decreases in food security and household income, while women report feeling nervous about grocery shopping in public markets, seeking health care COVID-19 Jhpiego, Baltimore City announce tracing partnership Published June 10, 2020
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/mechanical-engineering/articles/
 Mechanical engineering | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Mechanical engineering Mechanical engineering Students aim to take the bite out of noisy dental drills Published April 29, 2024 Mechanical engineering majors at Johns Hopkins created a device that dampens the din of dental drills during procedures Artificial intelligence Robot tackles trauma's silent killer Published April 16, 2024 Autonomous system devised by a Johns Hopkins doctoral student IDs and treats internal bleeding to prevent pre-hospital deaths when minutes matter Mechanical engineering Robotic surgeon precisely removes cancerous tumors Published March 18, 2024 A team of Johns Hopkins researchers designed a device that can successfully remove tumors from the tongue with accuracy rivaling human surgeons Science+Technology We all shimmy like these electric fish Published Oct 26, 2023 Johns Hopkins scientists are the first to demonstrate that a wide range of organisms, even microbes, perform the same pattern of movements in order to sense their surroundings Mechanical engineering A new hope
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/14/ebola-experts-johns-hopkins
 Public health experts gather at Johns Hopkins to discuss Ebola epidemic | Hub
Jackie Powder and Maryalice Yakutchik
Public health experts gather at Johns Hopkins to discuss Ebola epidemic Topics include current and future response, experimental medical countermeasures, complex ethical decisions that need to be made in real-time Credit: Larry Canner By Jackie Powder and Maryalice Yakutchik / Published Oct 14, 2014 The swiftly moving Ebola epidemic presents an immense challenge to unprepared national and global health systems, infectious disease expert Michael Osterholm said at an Ebola symposium Tuesday at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Image caption: Michael Osterholm Image credit: Larry Canner Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, is one of the leading public spokesmen on the Ebola epidemic, which has killed more than 4,300 in West Africa. Although he has reviewed hundreds of published papers on Ebola and briefs top government officials on the epidemic's spread, Osterholm readily admits that he knows less
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/21/emergency-ebola-protective-gear/
Johns Hopkins challenge: Design better protective gear for frontline health workers fighting Ebola virus | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Johns Hopkins challenge: Design better protective gear for frontline health workers fighting Ebola virus Jhpiego, CBID co-organize event with goal of reducing risk of infection By Phil Sneiderman / Published Oct 21, 2014 With the goal of reducing the risk of infection among frontline health workers, Johns Hopkins University will host an Emergency Ebola Design Challenge event this weekend on its Homewood Campus. Participants from across the university will be asked to help improve the design of personal protection gear that health workers wear and use while treating patients who are infected with the Ebola virus by developing new protective gear and improving procedures to reduce the risk of exposure. The disease, which has a fatality rate of more than 50 percent, can be transmitted from person to person by close contact with patients, dead bodies, or infected bodily fluids. The design challenge—co-organized by Jhpiego, an international nonprofit health group
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/09/09/protective-gear-ebola/
How protective gear is removed poses risk of deadly Ebola exposure | Hub
Mark Guidera
How protective gear is removed poses risk of deadly Ebola exposure Physical and emotional fatigue are factors in 'inadvertent' contamination By Mark Guidera / Published Sept 9, 2014 A team of American infectious disease and critical care experts is alerting colleagues caring for Ebola patients that how they remove their personal protective gear can be just as crucial as wearing it to prevent exposure to the deadly virus. In a commentary published online on Aug. 26 in the Annals of Internal Medicine, the physician-specialists from Johns Hopkins and the University of North Carolina say rigorous steps exist—and must be taken—to avoid "inadvertent" contact of frontline caregivers' exposed skin and mucous membranes to infected body fluids. Personal protective equipment, including goggles or face shields, gloves and gowns, are effectively decreasing West African caregivers' exposure to infected bodily fluids, but workers are still at risk "if removal of protective clothing that is
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/17/five-questions-about-ebola/
Five common questions about Ebola | Hub
Hub staff report
Five common questions about Ebola Learn the facts about Ebola's symptoms and how it spreads By Hub staff report / Published Oct 17, 2014 The World Health Organization recently reported that there have been nearly 9,000 cases and 5,000 deaths from Ebola virus in seven countries. The outbreak—centered in the West African nations of Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea—has rapidly become a public health crisis, with the CDC estimating that 1.4 million could become infected in Liberia and Sierra Leone by January. On Oct. 7, the first patient diagnosed with Ebola virus outside of Africa, Thomas Eric Duncan, died at a hospital in Dallas, Texas. Duncan, 42, contracted Ebola in Liberia before traveling to Dallas, where he was admitted to Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital on Sept. 28. Two nurses who cared for him were subsequently diagnosed with Ebola. Featured CoverageJohns Hopkins responds to EbolaRelevant news coverage and helpful resources related
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/14/ebola-experts-johns-hopkins/
Public health experts gather at Johns Hopkins to discuss Ebola epidemic | Hub
Jackie Powder and Maryalice Yakutchik
Public health experts gather at Johns Hopkins to discuss Ebola epidemic Topics include current and future response, experimental medical countermeasures, complex ethical decisions that need to be made in real-time Credit: Larry Canner By Jackie Powder and Maryalice Yakutchik / Published Oct 14, 2014 The swiftly moving Ebola epidemic presents an immense challenge to unprepared national and global health systems, infectious disease expert Michael Osterholm said at an Ebola symposium Tuesday at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Image caption: Michael Osterholm Image credit: Larry Canner Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, is one of the leading public spokesmen on the Ebola epidemic, which has killed more than 4,300 in West Africa. Although he has reviewed hundreds of published papers on Ebola and briefs top government officials on the epidemic's spread, Osterholm readily admits that he knows less
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/23/ebola-bioethics-qa/
Berman Institute bioethicists answer Ebola-related questions | Hub
Hub staff report
Berman Institute bioethicists answer Ebola-related questions Outbreak of virus in West Africa raises complex ethical challenges By Hub staff report / Published Oct 23, 2014 As the Ebola virus continues to spread across West Africa, complex ethical challenges abound related to the use of untested interventions, quarantines, special care, and other issues. Faculty members from the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics recently shared their thoughts on some of these difficult questions. Should there be a travel ban from Ebola-infected countries? Holly Taylor, Berman Institute core faculty: No. There is no evidence that travel bans have been effective in limiting the spread of infectious disease in any previous infectious disease outbreak and it is unlikely that any such ban on Ebola-infected countries will limit the spread of Ebola. Indeed our attention should be on how best to help Ebola-infected countries where the outbreak is raging rather than spending any human
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/19/ebola-treatment-ethics-kass/
Johns Hopkins bioethicist defends treatment of American Ebola patients | Hub
Leah Ramsay
Johns Hopkins bioethicist defends treatment of American Ebola patients Public health ethics expert Nancy Kass cautions against rapid, widespread dissemination of experimental treatments By Leah Ramsay / Published Aug 19, 2014 Johns Hopkins bioethicist Nancy Kass defends the unique treatment given to the two Americans infected with Ebola but advises proceeding with caution for wider distribution of the experimental drug in an opinion piece published Monday in the Annals of Internal Medicine. Two American aid workers who contracted the Ebola virus in Africa have been treated at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta with a drug called ZMapp, a cocktail of plant-derived antibodies that has never before been used to treat humans. Because the drug was still being tested at the time of the latest Ebola outbreak, it is in very short supply. Kass, the Deputy Director for Public Health at the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics, addresses a question
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/07/31/ebola-diane-griffin/
Johns Hopkins expert cautions against panic over the latest ebola outbreak | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins expert cautions against panic over the latest ebola outbreak By Hub staff report / Published July 31, 2014 We've all heard about the latest outbreak of Ebola Virus in West Africa. Depending on your personal levels of hypochondria, you may or may not be panicking. Vice News turned to one of our own experts, Diane Griffin, to find out whether all the worrying is warranted. "If I were panicked I'd let you know," she told Vice in a Q&A. "I just don't think there's any reason for that." So it's all good news, right? Not so fast, says Griffin, the Alfred and Jill Sommer Professor and Chair in Molecular Microbiology and Immunology at the School of Public Health. "There are reasons to pay attention," said Griffin, who isn't on the front lines this time, but has worked in Africa in the past. "One of the problems is that
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/06/ebola-outbreak-nigeria/
Johns Hopkins expert discusses challenges of containing Ebola virus in Africa's most populous city | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins expert discusses challenges of containing Ebola virus in Africa's most populous city Trish Perl says epidemiologists will want to track down everyone who has come in contact with man who died in Nigeria By Hub staff report / Published Aug 6, 2014 Editor's note: As of Oct. 20, 2014, the World Health Organization has declared the end of the Ebola virus outbreak in Nigeria As Ebola fears spread in West Africa and beyond, a Johns Hopkins expert discussed the challenges associated with containing Ebola in a densely populated city. Epidemiologists are trying to track down anyone who came in contact with Patrick Sawyer, NBC News reported Tuesday, an American consultant who died on July 25, five days after stepping off a plane in Lagos, Nigeria. Health officials are concerned that he may have sparked an Ebola outbreak in Lagos, Africa's most populous city with a population of about
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/11/ebola-facts-qa/
Ebola facts: What is the Ebola virus and how is it transmitted? | Hub
Ellen Poltilove
Ebola facts: What is the Ebola virus and how is it transmitted? Q&A with Johns Hopkins infectious disease expert Kristina Obom Image caption: The Ebola virus Credit: CDC By Ellen Poltilove / Published Aug 11, 2014 Kristina Obom, director Advanced Academic Programs' Center for Biotechnology Education, teaches a course called Emerging Infectious Diseases. The maladies addressed range from diseases that have reappeared in altered genetic forms, such as the influenza virus and the West Nile virus, to the lethal hemorrhagic fever caused by the Ebola virus. Image caption: Kristina Obom (right) is the director of Johns Hopkins University Center for Biotechnology Education. The ongoing Ebola outbreak in West Africa has killed more than 900 people to date and has triggered an international public health emergency. Last week, two Americans who contracted the disease while doing medical missionary work in Africa were transported to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta for treatment.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/12/zmapp-ebola-treament-cone-lab/
Experimental ZMapp treatment for Ebola virus has roots at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Hub staff report
Experimental ZMapp treatment for Ebola virus has roots at Johns Hopkins Image caption: The Ebola virus Credit: CDC By Hub staff report / Published Aug 12, 2014 The experimental treatment for the Ebola virus—the so-called "secret serum" being used to treat two American aid workers and a Spanish missionary priest who contracted the disease—has its roots at Johns Hopkins, NBC News reported today. Image caption: Richard Cone Mapp Biopharmaceutical, which developed the "plantibodies" used in the treatment, is run by two Johns Hopkins graduates who got their start in the lab of Johns Hopkins biophysics Professor Richard Cone. From NBC News: When news broke last week of a Southern California firm's experimental treatment for Ebola, pioneering biophysicist Richard Cone quietly celebrated from his office at Johns Hopkins University. He emailed congratulations to the two former protégés who'd developed the medicine, then allowed himself to dream again. Cone, 78, runs an
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/27/ebola-design-challenge/
JHU designers aim to improve protective gear for those treating Ebola patients | Hub
Ann LoLordo
JHU designers aim to improve protective gear for those treating Ebola patients Four teams receive Md. seed funding for concepts created at event co-hosted by Jhpiego, Center for Biomedical Innovation & Design By Ann LoLordo / Published Oct 27, 2014 A weekend design challenge to develop new protective gear for health workers fighting Ebola drew students, faculty, and clinicians from across Johns Hopkins University and beyond, along with $25,000 in state seed grants to support further development of the best ideas. Jhpiego, a nonprofit global health organization and Hopkins affiliate, and the JHU Center for Biomedical Innovation & Design (CBID) hosted the Emergency Ebola Design Challenge to harness the brain power and expertise of the Johns Hopkins community to develop ways to better protect health workers on the front lines of the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. The 65 participants included employees from the Johns Hopkins medical institutions, schools of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/30/ebola-health-care-workers-obama/
Obama praises health care 'heroes' fighting Ebola epidemic, says they deserve our gratitude, respect | Hub
Hub staff report
Obama praises health care 'heroes' fighting Ebola epidemic, says they deserve our gratitude, respect 4 Johns Hopkins Ebola experts appear with president at White House Image caption: President Barack Obama praises U.S. health care workers fighting on the front lines of the Ebola epidemic during a news conference in the East Room of the White House on Wednesday. Four Johns Hopkins faculty members—Trish Perl, David Peters, Susan Krenn, and Tom Kirsch—were among the 12 medical workers who stood behind Obama on the podium. Credit: Bloomberg/Getty Images By Hub staff report / Published Oct 30, 2014 Four Ebola experts from Johns Hopkins University were among a dozen U.S. medical workers who stood with President Barack Obama on Wednesday afternoon at a news conference in the East Room of the White House during which the president praised health care workers serving on the front lines of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa,
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/27/kaci-hickox-quarantine-letter
 Johns Hopkins School of Public Health dean criticizes N.J. Ebola quarantine | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins School of Public Health dean criticizes N.J. Ebola quarantine Klag to Christie: Policy 'increases paranoia without ... protecting health' By Hub staff report / Published Oct 27, 2014 Michael J. Klag, dean of the Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, sent a letter to New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie this morning objecting to the policy that led to the quarantine of a health care worker who recently returned from West Africa. Image caption: Kaci Hickox, who received a joint master's degree from the Johns Hopkins schools of Public Health and Nursing, was quarantined in New Jersey on Friday after returning from Sierra Leone. Kaci Hickox, a nurse who received a joint master's degree from the Johns Hopkins schools of Public Health and Nursing in 2011, has been detained in isolation in a tent outside a New Jersey hospital for three days since returning Friday from Sierra
http://hub.jhu.edu/politics-society/
 Politics+Society                 | Hub

Politics+Society Faculty Honors Lilliana Mason awarded Carnegie Fellowship Published May 8, 2024 An associate professor of political science at the SNF Agora Institute of Johns Hopkins University, Mason is one of 28 scholars receiving grants of up to $200,000 to research political polarization Q+A U.S. aid and the war in Ukraine Published April 30, 2024 With $61 billion heading to Ukraine, SAIS expert Hal Brands, editor of 'War in Ukraine,' discusses the current state of the conflict Q+A Experts estimate scenarios for excess deaths in Gaza Published April 15, 2024 Johns Hopkins civil and systems engineering professor Tak Igusa explains how the research team modeled projections of future casualties from trauma, infectious diseases, and other factors in Gaza 3 Questions How science can help countries forge unlikely connections Published April 12, 2024 By finding common ground in science, nations with otherwise strained relationships can build ties and establish friendships, says
http://hub.jhu.edu/topics/politics-society/articles/2/
 Politics+Society | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Politics+Society How to overhaul America's schools Published Spring 2024 In her new book, Associate Professor Ashley Rogers Berner makes the case for funding diverse types of schools but holding them all to the same academic standards / Johns Hopkins Magazine The Bard's Prophecies Published Spring 2024 SAIS Professor Eliot Cohen's new book explores what Shakespeare can teach us about modern-day politics / Johns Hopkins Magazine Battle of the Airwaves Published Spring 2024 The book How to Win an Information War chronicles WWII-era propagandist Sefton Delmer / Johns Hopkins Magazine Commencement 2024 Mitt Romney named Commencement speaker Published March 28, 2024 U.S. senator and 2012 Republican presidential nominee will address the Class of 2024 on May 23 K-12 Education Solving for teacher shortages Published March 27, 2024 Educators discussed how to tackle the chronic, nationwide shortage of K-12 teachers at a two-day event co-hosted by the School of Education
http://hub.jhu.edu/voices-opinion/
 Voices+Opinion                 | Hub

Voices+Opinion Q+A U.S. aid and the war in Ukraine Published April 30, 2024 Congress has officially approved $61 billion in foreign aid for Ukraine. Hal Brands, editor of 'War in Ukraine,' discusses the current state of the conflict. Health Policy Forum ARPA-H leaders discuss new 'medical moonshots' funding Published May 3, 2024 Medicine Dean Theodore DeWeese discusses the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health with Renee Wegrzyn, Kimberley Steele 3 questions EPA phases out PFAS Published April 19, 2024 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency imposes first-ever regulations limiting chemicals known as PFAS, or forever chemicals, in drinking water How to overhaul America's schools Published Spring 2024 In her new book, Associate Professor Ashley Rogers Berner makes the case for funding diverse types of schools but holding them all to the same academic standards / Johns Hopkins Magazine International team including Johns Hopkins experts makes excess deaths projections in Gaza April 15,
http://hub.jhu.edu/topics/voices-opinion/articles/2/
 Voices+Opinion | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Voices+Opinion Message Published Spring 2024 Alum and entrepreneur Pava LaPere made an incredible impact on Johns Hopkins and the city of Baltimore before her life was tragically cut short. This spring, the university will honor her legacy. / Johns Hopkins Magazine Editor's note Published Spring 2024 / Johns Hopkins Magazine Letters to the editor Published Spring 2024 / Johns Hopkins Magazine We asked readers to tell us about the invite that changed their lives Published Spring 2024 / Johns Hopkins Magazine 3 Questions Supply chains could feel ripple effects from bridge collapse Published March 26, 2024 Operations management expert Tinglong Dai discusses the impact of the collapse for consumers, suppliers, and the economy 3 Questions Structural engineer discusses Baltimore's Key Bridge collapse Published March 26, 2024 Bridge expert Rachel Sangree talks about how long, continuous spans in the bridge design played a role in its collapse 3 Questions
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/27/kaci-hickox-quarantine-letter/
Johns Hopkins School of Public Health dean criticizes N.J. Ebola quarantine | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins School of Public Health dean criticizes N.J. Ebola quarantine Klag to Christie: Policy 'increases paranoia without ... protecting health' By Hub staff report / Published Oct 27, 2014 Michael J. Klag, dean of the Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, sent a letter to New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie this morning objecting to the policy that led to the quarantine of a health care worker who recently returned from West Africa. Image caption: Kaci Hickox, who received a joint master's degree from the Johns Hopkins schools of Public Health and Nursing, was quarantined in New Jersey on Friday after returning from Sierra Leone. Kaci Hickox, a nurse who received a joint master's degree from the Johns Hopkins schools of Public Health and Nursing in 2011, has been detained in isolation in a tent outside a New Jersey hospital for three days since returning Friday from Sierra
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/11/04/pekosz-ebola-virology/
Johns Hopkins expert discusses the basic biology of Ebola and what makes it tough to contain | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins expert discusses the basic biology of Ebola and what makes it tough to contain By Hub staff report / Published Nov 4, 2014 Andrew Pekosz is an associate professor of molecular microbiology and immunology at the Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health and a leading expert on the basic biology of influenza and other emerging virus infections. Image caption: Andrew Pekosz Pekosz organized last month's half-day Ebola symposium at the School of Public Health, and he recently answered questions about Ebola risk in the U.S.. We spoke with him about the how virus infections like Ebola evolve and about what makes the current Ebola outbreak so challenging. Ebola outbreaks have happened before—why is there no effective remedy? Treatments and vaccines that target the Ebola virus have been developed in laboratories and tested in a number of models. Most of these haven't progressed to clinical trials for
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/14/ebola-experts-johns-hopkins
 Public health experts gather at Johns Hopkins to discuss Ebola epidemic | Hub
Jackie Powder and Maryalice Yakutchik
Public health experts gather at Johns Hopkins to discuss Ebola epidemic Topics include current and future response, experimental medical countermeasures, complex ethical decisions that need to be made in real-time Credit: Larry Canner By Jackie Powder and Maryalice Yakutchik / Published Oct 14, 2014 The swiftly moving Ebola epidemic presents an immense challenge to unprepared national and global health systems, infectious disease expert Michael Osterholm said at an Ebola symposium Tuesday at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Image caption: Michael Osterholm Image credit: Larry Canner Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, is one of the leading public spokesmen on the Ebola epidemic, which has killed more than 4,300 in West Africa. Although he has reviewed hundreds of published papers on Ebola and briefs top government officials on the epidemic's spread, Osterholm readily admits that he knows less
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/epidemiology/articles/
 Epidemiology | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Epidemiology Public health JHU experts play lead roles in epidemic preparedness project Published Sept 19, 2023 Center for Health Security, others from across Hopkins receive CDC funding to help communities prepare for future emerging health threats Endemic COVID What does the new CDC guidance tell us about the COVID-19 pandemic? Published Aug 15, 2022 Johns Hopkins epidemiologist David Dowdy says the guidance update brings the CDC in line with the habits of Americans and suggests we're closer to a new, endemic phase of COVID-19 Voices What you need to know about monkeypox Published May 24, 2022 As monkeypox spreads beyond the expected areas, an infectious disease expert offers insight on how the virus spreads—and why it shouldn't be a cause for alarm Protein power Study probes the relationship between genetics, proteins, and disease risk Published May 11, 2022 A groundbreaking collaborative study led by Johns Hopkins researchers has
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/11/10/drc-ebola-training/
Johns Hopkins experts help train Congolese health workers to fight Ebola | Hub
Greg Rienzi
Johns Hopkins experts help train Congolese health workers to fight Ebola Goal is to train 1,000 to combat outbreak in West Africa By Greg Rienzi / Published Nov 10, 2014 As Ebola continues to all-too-swiftly spread and inflict its human toll in West Africa, overstretched and undermanned health care systems need all hands on deck. Johns Hopkins wants to help send in a cavalry. Image caption: David Peters A team of faculty members from the Bloomberg School of Public Health, School of Nursing, and the School of Medicine are assisting in an effort to train 1,000 Democratic Republic of Congo health care workers—including nurses, doctors, lab techs, and hygienists—to combat the outbreak in Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea. The health care workers first will be trained in the DRC, then sent in waves to the West African locations where they are needed most. The first group will be deployed later
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/11/11/ebola-prevention-control-training-jhpiego/
Jhpiego works with health officials in West Africa to limit spread of Ebola virus | Hub
Ann LoLordo
Jhpiego works with health officials in West Africa to limit spread of Ebola virus Training materials detail latest infection prevention, control measures Video: jhpiego By Ann LoLordo / Published Nov 11, 2014 As part of its ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of Ebola virus disease in West Africa, Jhpiego, an international health non-profit and Johns Hopkins University affiliate, is bringing health officials and clinicians from across the region to Ghana for specialized training in infection prevention to prepare for future health emergencies. Image credit: Jhpiego/Chantelle Allen Jhpiego technical experts will hold two workshops this month for Ministry of Health officials, physicians, nurses, other clinicians, and expert trainers to share the latest in infection prevention and control interventions through a new training package titled "Prevention and Control of Ebola Virus Disease in Health Care Facilities with Limited Resources." The package was developed through a collaboration between Jhpiego and the Department
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/11/17/tener-goodwin-veenema-ebola-response/
Ebola virus a 'wake-up call' for U.S. hospitals, Johns Hopkins emergency preparedness expert says | Hub
Hub staff report
Ebola virus a 'wake-up call' for U.S. hospitals, Johns Hopkins emergency preparedness expert says By Hub staff report / Published Nov 17, 2014 Tener Goodwin Veenema is an associate professor at the Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing and an internationally recognized expert in disaster nursing and public health emergency preparedness. We spoke with her recently about the Ebola response in West Africa and in the United States, and about the critical role nurses play in hospital preparedness. What factors are contributing to the rapid spread of the Ebola virus in West Africa? There are many factors contributing to the rapid spread of the Ebola virus in several West African nations, including poverty, malnutrition, and concurrent illnesses, along with social, economic, and education-related factors. A weak public health infrastructure characterized by poor sanitation and inadequate plumbing are other contributing factors. What can be done to contain it? Infection control is
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/11/21/ebola-software/
New online 3-D tool seeks possible targets to disable Ebola virus | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
New online 3-D tool seeks possible targets to disable Ebola virus Image caption: This illustration depicts the Ebola virus and proteins on its surface that may provide targets for new drugs that could help treat or prevent Ebola infections Credit: David Hopkins/Johns Hopkins Institute for Computational Medicine By Phil Sneiderman / Published Nov 21, 2014 Johns Hopkins biomedical engineers have developed a free, browser-based online tool that could speed up the creation of new drugs to treat or prevent Ebola virus infections. The software, called MuPIT Ebola Edition, enables a researcher to visualize Ebola gene mutations in the context of three-dimensional protein structures. It also offers views of antibody binding sites or epitopes that are situated on protein surfaces. These sites may give researchers new targets for preventive vaccines and serums to treat those who are already infected. MuPIT is short for Mutation Position Imaging Toolkit. "Learning more about the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/12/ebola-suit-design-funding
 Improved suit for Ebola caregivers chosen for funding in federal competition  | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Improved suit for Ebola caregivers chosen for funding in federal competition Johns Hopkins/Jhpiego design aims to reduce infection risks By Phil Sneiderman / Published Dec 12, 2014 An advanced protective suit for health care workers who treat Ebola patients, devised by a Johns Hopkins team, is one of the first five awardees in a federal funding contest aimed at quickly devising new tools to combat the deadly disease. The Johns Hopkins prototype is designed to do a better job than current garments in keeping health care workers from coming in contact with Ebola patients' contagious body fluids, both during treatment and while removing a soiled suit. In addition, it is expected to keep the wearer cooler—an important benefit in hot, humid regions such as West Africa. The first projects selected for the federal funding were announced today by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) through its new program, launched
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/27/ebola-design-challenge
 JHU designers aim to improve protective gear for those treating Ebola patients | Hub
Ann LoLordo
JHU designers aim to improve protective gear for those treating Ebola patients Four teams receive Md. seed funding for concepts created at event co-hosted by Jhpiego, Center for Biomedical Innovation & Design By Ann LoLordo / Published Oct 27, 2014 A weekend design challenge to develop new protective gear for health workers fighting Ebola drew students, faculty, and clinicians from across Johns Hopkins University and beyond, along with $25,000 in state seed grants to support further development of the best ideas. Jhpiego, a nonprofit global health organization and Hopkins affiliate, and the JHU Center for Biomedical Innovation & Design (CBID) hosted the Emergency Ebola Design Challenge to harness the brain power and expertise of the Johns Hopkins community to develop ways to better protect health workers on the front lines of the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. The 65 participants included employees from the Johns Hopkins medical institutions, schools of
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/global-health/articles/
 Global health | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Global health Global health Jhpiego's Leslie Mancuso receives Academy of Public Health honor Published Oct 20, 2023 She is among eight recognized by the Nigeria-based organization for 'exceptional leadership, scholarship, and service in the field of public health' Public health Mosquito taste test Published Fall 2023 Unlocking the mystery of why mosquitoes are attracted by specific human scents but repelled by others / Johns Hopkins Magazine Global health Seed grant funding available for health research in India Published July 26, 2023 Gupta-Klinsky India Institute will support collaborations with India-based partners related to health data and the impact of climate change on health Global health The chemistry of mosquito attraction Published July 6, 2023 New discoveries by Johns Hopkins researchers about mosquitoes' human scent preferences could lead to novel malaria interventions Global health Non-invasive malaria screening device uses light for diagnosis Published Jan 6, 2023 The test, being developed
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/12/ebola-suit-design-funding/
Improved suit for Ebola caregivers chosen for funding in federal competition  | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Improved suit for Ebola caregivers chosen for funding in federal competition Johns Hopkins/Jhpiego design aims to reduce infection risks By Phil Sneiderman / Published Dec 12, 2014 An advanced protective suit for health care workers who treat Ebola patients, devised by a Johns Hopkins team, is one of the first five awardees in a federal funding contest aimed at quickly devising new tools to combat the deadly disease. The Johns Hopkins prototype is designed to do a better job than current garments in keeping health care workers from coming in contact with Ebola patients' contagious body fluids, both during treatment and while removing a soiled suit. In addition, it is expected to keep the wearer cooler—an important benefit in hot, humid regions such as West Africa. The first projects selected for the federal funding were announced today by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) through its new program, launched
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/02/04/guinea-doctor-ebola-jhpiego/
Guinean doctor who survived Ebola works to ensure proper infection prevention practices  | Hub
By Jacqueline Aribot and Alisha Horowitz
Guinean doctor who survived Ebola works to ensure proper infection prevention practices Training organized by Jhpiego-led group teaches vital IPC protocols Image caption: Health workers in Guinea attend an Ebola preparedness training conducted by Jhpiego through the U.S. Agency for International Development’s flagship Maternal and Child Survival Program. Credit: Jhpiego/Jacqueline Aribot By By Jacqueline Aribot and Alisha Horowitz / Published Feb 4, 2015 CONAKRY, Guinea—Dr. Thierno Souleymane Diallo is a formidable ally in Guinea's race to prevent and contain the spread of the deadly Ebola virus among women and families. As a survivor of the disease, he is championing with colleagues the infection prevention and control skills that can save lives. Image credit: Jhpiego/Jacqueline Aribot Thierno was infected with the virus during his rotation in the maternity ward at the National Hospital Ignace Deen last August. The 35-year-old father of three was treating a pregnant patient who showed no Ebola-related
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/02/18/ebola-patient-care-training-videos/
Johns Hopkins Medicine releases training videos to help emergency departments care for Ebola patients | Hub
Lisa Broadhead
Johns Hopkins Medicine releases training videos to help emergency departments care for Ebola patients Modules aims to help hospitals better prepare for infectious disease outbreaks By Lisa Broadhead / Published Feb 18, 2015 Johns Hopkins Medicine has released four web-based training modules for emergency department personnel who treat patients with Ebola and other infectious diseases. The learning series, titled "Ebola Preparedness: Emergency Department Guidelines," prepares health care workers to safely and efficiently identify, triage, and briefly manage the care of patients who might have Ebola. It also highlights important planning processes, provider-patient communication techniques, and cross-discipline teamwork principles that can be used to successfully prepare for emerging infectious diseases. The videos are now available on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's YouTube channel. "In the last several years, our world has witnessed outbreaks of coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome, Middle East respiratory syndrome and novel influenza viruses, such as
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/24/cdc-ebola-training-module/
CDC taps Johns Hopkins to lead development of Ebola training module for health care workers | Hub
Lisa Broadhead
CDC taps Johns Hopkins to lead development of Ebola training module for health care workers Video: Johns Hopkins Medicine By Lisa Broadhead / Published Oct 24, 2014 Johns Hopkins Medicine has been tasked by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to lead a group and to design an interactive Web-based learning program that guides health care workers, nurses, and physicians through government-approved protocols to aid clinicians as they provide care to patients who may be at risk of contracting the Ebola virus. The program trains health care providers in three critical areas: Proper donning of personal protective equipment Safe removal of gear Active monitoring skills All three modules will be available for free on the CDC's website in the coming weeks and later available to the millions of iOS users on iTunes U. Infection prevention and safety experts from the Johns Hopkins Armstrong Institute for Patient Safety and Quality
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/23/johns-hopkins-hospital-ebola-designation/
Johns Hopkins Hospital part of Md. strategy to treat local patients with Ebola | Hub
Johns Hopkins Medicine
Johns Hopkins Hospital part of Md. strategy to treat local patients with Ebola State designates three sites to care with potential patients with virus By Johns Hopkins Medicine / Published Oct 23, 2014 In an announcement made by Maryland's Gov. Martin O'Malley today, The Johns Hopkins Hospital, along with other local hospitals, has been identified as a designated site to care for potential patients with Ebola virus disease. There are no patients with Ebola virus disease at The Johns Hopkins Hospital or any other member hospitals within Johns Hopkins Medicine at this time, and the governor's office states that no cases have been diagnosed in Maryland to date. Under the coordinated strategy developed by state health and hospital officials, all hospital emergency departments in the state will continue to be prepared to evaluate patients suspected of having Ebola virus disease. Should a case of Ebola virus disease be confirmed, the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/27/ebola-suit-index-award-finalist/
Protective suit for Ebola caregivers lands Johns Hopkins, Jhpiego among finalists in global design competition | Hub
Hub staff report
Protective suit for Ebola caregivers lands Johns Hopkins, Jhpiego among finalists in global design competition By Hub staff report / Published Aug 27, 2015 A team representing Johns Hopkins and Jhpiego is among the finalists for an international award that recognizes innovative designs that improve lives for its improved protective suit for health workers treating patients with Ebola and other infectious diseases. Winners of the INDEX: Awards were announced Thursday night at a ceremony in Denmark. The protective suit was initially designed by a team of global health experts, engineers, scientists, and students at a weekend-long hackathon in October 2014. The event—co-hosted by Jhpiego, a nonprofit global health affiliate of Johns Hopkins University, and the Johns Hopkins Center for Bioengineering Innovation & Design—came in response to a call to action from the White House and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for improved personal protective equipment during the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/14/ebola-suit-honored-for-design/
Ebola protective suit honored in global design competition | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Ebola protective suit honored in global design competition Johns Hopkins' Ebola protective suit honored in Fast Company 'Innovation by Design Awards' An advanced protective suit for health care workers who treat Ebola patients, devised by a Johns Hopkins team By Dennis O'Shea / Published Sept 14, 2015 The Johns Hopkins University's new personal protective suit for frontline health care workers in Ebola outbreaks was honored Monday as one of 10 finalists in the Social Good category of Fast Company's 2015 Innovation by Design Awards. The suit, intended for use in future Ebola outbreaks like the 2014 epidemic that killed thousands in West Africa, has elements to keep the wearer more comfortable than existing suits, reduce the risk of coming in contact with the virus and protect against other infectious diseases. Fast Company praised the design's prospects to do a "better job than current garments at keeping health care workers from
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/12/ebola-suit-design-funding
 Improved suit for Ebola caregivers chosen for funding in federal competition  | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Improved suit for Ebola caregivers chosen for funding in federal competition Johns Hopkins/Jhpiego design aims to reduce infection risks By Phil Sneiderman / Published Dec 12, 2014 An advanced protective suit for health care workers who treat Ebola patients, devised by a Johns Hopkins team, is one of the first five awardees in a federal funding contest aimed at quickly devising new tools to combat the deadly disease. The Johns Hopkins prototype is designed to do a better job than current garments in keeping health care workers from coming in contact with Ebola patients' contagious body fluids, both during treatment and while removing a soiled suit. In addition, it is expected to keep the wearer cooler—an important benefit in hot, humid regions such as West Africa. The first projects selected for the federal funding were announced today by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) through its new program, launched
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/28/hopkins-dupont-ebola-garment-partnership/
Johns Hopkins, DuPont join forces to produce improved Ebola protection suit | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Johns Hopkins, DuPont join forces to produce improved Ebola protection suit First of garments could be available in marketplace in first half of 2016 Image caption: Matt Petney, who served as a project manager at Johns Hopkins during development of the improved Ebola protection suit, helps Allie Sibole, a recent graduate, to don the prototype garment. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Phil Sneiderman / Published Sept 28, 2015 The Johns Hopkins University and DuPont have signed license and collaboration agreements allowing DuPont to commercialize a garment with innovative features from Johns Hopkins to help protect people on the front lines of the Ebola crisis and future deadly infectious disease outbreaks. DuPont intends to have the first of these garments available in the marketplace during the first half of 2016. The collaboration between the major research university and the international science and engineering company began in response to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/05/cbid-design-day-student-healthcare-competition/
Johns Hopkins student team designs device to treat chronic sinus inflammation | Hub
Mary Beth Regan
Johns Hopkins student team designs device to treat chronic sinus inflammation Salient ENT wins inaugural Student Healthcare Design Competition Image caption: The Salient ENT team (from left to right): Amal Alfroz Alam, Scott Stanley, Demetri Monovoukas, Emily Eggert, and Elizabeth Lebling Credit: James VanRensselaer / Homewoodphoto.jhu.edu By Mary Beth Regan / Published May 5, 2016 A device to treat persistent and reoccurring sinus infections took the top award in the first-ever Student Healthcare Design Competition, which was held on Johns Hopkins University's East Baltimore campus on Tuesday and sponsored by the Johns Hopkins Center for Bioengineering Innovation and Design. Image caption: Diagram depicts the Salient ENT device implant in the nasal cavity and the flow of therapeutic fluids to the sinuses Unlike other business plan competitions at Johns Hopkins, the Student Healthcare Design Competition focused on the design and development of effective solutions to major healthcare problems. Forty-nine student teams
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/03/design-day-breast-cancer-treatment-south-africa
 Johns Hopkins student team develops reusable cryotherapy device to help treat breast cancer in rural South Africa | Hub
Karen Blum
Johns Hopkins student team develops reusable cryotherapy device to help treat breast cancer in rural South Africa Image caption: BME undergraduate students (from left to right) Monica Rex, Ben Lee, and Sonia Trukru are part of a nine-member team working to find a new treatment option for breast cancer patients, who live in low-resource areas such as South Africa By Karen Blum / Published May 3, 2016 When radiologist Susan Harvey, director of breast imaging at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, was searching for ways to improve access to breast cancer diagnostics and therapeutics in South Africa, she turned to the Johns Hopkins Center for Bioengineering Innovation and Design, which focuses on training the next generation of biomedical engineers. Monica Rex, a senior biomedical engineering and Spanish major from Orlando, Florida, and her five-member student design team jumped at the idea. Within a month of meeting last summer, Rex
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/biomedical-engineering/articles/
 Biomedical engineering | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Biomedical engineering Faculty honors Five from JHU elected to AIMBE College of Fellows Published March 25, 2024 Recognition honors individuals who have made outstanding contributions to engineering and medicine research, practice, or education Mechanical engineering Robotic surgeon precisely removes cancerous tumors Published March 18, 2024 A team of Johns Hopkins researchers designed a device that can successfully remove tumors from the tongue with accuracy rivaling human surgeons Biomedical engineering A brain imaging advance Published Dec 14, 2023 Hopkins team develops new algorithm that can create 'super-scans' of the brain Entrepreneurship Undergrads named runners-up in Collegiate Inventors Competition Published Oct 25, 2023 The OnPoint Ventilation team developed Bronchosleeve, designed to reduce complications associated with common chest surgery procedure Health equity A fix for bias in medical imaging Published Oct 10, 2023 Hopkins–led team finds a way to deliver clear pictures of anyone's internal anatomy, no matter their skin tone
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/breast-cancer/articles/
 Breast cancer | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Breast cancer Cancer Microbes in breast tumors vary in women of different races Published March 28, 2023 Researchers at the Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center found that the breast tumors of Asian, Black, and white women have very different cellular, microbial, and genomic features and could one day lead to personalized care Cancer prevention For many patients, ultrasounds could be pivotal for early breast cancer diagnosis Published Sept 7, 2022 The development of novel ultrasound technology will help radiologists differentiate cancer from benign masses, preventing invasive and unnecessary breast biopsies and multi-year follow-ups Cancer research Liquid biopsy quickly detects DNA markers in advanced breast cancer Published June 24, 2022 The new test, developed by Johns Hopkins researchers, has potential to help oncologists quickly determine the efficacy of a patient's treatment plan Q+A Engineering better breast cancer diagnosis and treatment Published Oct 4, 2019 Mechanical engineer SJ Claire Hur
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/25/biomedical-engineering-surgery-carnegie-center/
Johns Hopkins laboratory for neurosurgery, biomedical engineering sparks new partnerships | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins laboratory for neurosurgery, biomedical engineering sparks new partnerships Image caption: Jeff Siewerdsen (left) and Jean-Paul Wolinsky are co-directors of the new Carnegie Center for Surgical Innovation By Hub staff report / Published May 25, 2016 On the seventh floor of the Johns Hopkins Hospital's Carnegie Building, in what once was a postoperative recovery room, biomedical engineering students are designing biomedical tools, algorithms, and imaging systems that could shape the future of surgery. Not far from their workstations, toolboxes, and robots, a foosball table provides a place for researchers and clinicians to unwind. Nearby, a giant TV screen is on 24/7, linking the Carnegie Center to the BME Design Studio in Clark Hall on Johns Hopkins University's Homewood campus. For Jeff Siewerdsen, a professor of biomedical engineering, it was not hard to imagine such a synergistic connection between biomedical engineers and surgeons. "Clinical collaboration has always been the inspiration
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/22/ebola-suit-improvements-cbid-dupont/
Breathing easier: Johns Hopkins students develop improvements for Ebola protection suit | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
Breathing easier: Johns Hopkins students develop improvements for Ebola protection suit Mechanical engineering student teams develop prototypes for more comfortable hood and face mask, battery-powered system that lowers humidity By Arthur Hirsch / Published June 22, 2016 For health workers in the field treating people stricken with Ebola and other diseases, a protective suit is the first defense against infection. The suit and head covering itself, however, can hamper the ability to help by impeding breathing, or heating up so quickly in high temperatures and humidity that workers can scarcely wear the suits for more than an hour. Featured CoverageJohns Hopkins responds to EbolaRelevant news coverage and helpful resources related to the Ebola outbreak and how Johns Hopkins is responding at home and abroad Johns Hopkins University engineering students and team members hope to solve these problems as they improve a protective suit to be manufactured by DuPont under an
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/07/27/cricspike-breathing-device-military/
Device could make it easier for combat medics to open life-saving airways  | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Undergraduate research Device could make it easier for combat medics to open life-saving airways Johns Hopkins student team creates CricSpike, which aims to reduce deaths from battlefield injuries that block breathing Video: Jim Trone By Phil Sneiderman / Published July 27, 2016 When a battlefield explosion injures a soldier's face or neck, the critical air passage to the lungs can become blocked, which can lead to brain damage and death within minutes. To help treat these types of injuries, a team of Johns Hopkins undergraduate students has designed a low-cost, low-tech device dubbed CricSpike that may boost the success rate when combat medics need to create an artificial airway and pump air into the lungs. The goal of this procedure is to keep wounded soldiers alive until more advanced treatment can be administered at a hospital. Image caption: CricSpike team members include (from left): Travis Wallace, Himanshu Dashora, Ronak Mehta,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/07/11/wounded-soldiers-foam/
JHU students develop treatment that could prevent fatal blood loss in wounded soldiers | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
JHU students develop treatment that could prevent fatal blood loss in wounded soldiers Injectable foam designed to be more effective than tourniquets, gauze Image caption: The Johns Hopkins biomedical engineering students who devised the miltary wound treatment are, from left, Austin Jordan, Divya Kernik, Allie Sanzi, Sydney Rooney, Katie Hochberg, Logan Howard, Ernest Scalabrin and Jeff Knox. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Phil Sneiderman / Published July 11, 2014 Without prompt care, a badly wounded soldier can easily bleed to death while being transported to a distant medical station. Two traditional treatments—tourniquets and medicated gauze pads—often cannot stop the blood loss from a deep wound at the neck, shoulder, or groin. To give these soldiers a fighting chance at survival, Johns Hopkins undergraduates have invented an injectable foam system designed to stop profuse bleeding from a wound where a limb or the head is connected to the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/23/gear-foot-video-game-controller/
Novel controller allows video gamers to compete with their feet | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Novel controller allows video gamers to compete with their feet Device for upper-limb amputees earns honors for Johns Hopkins graduate students Video: Dave Schmelick, Jim Trone, Chris Hartlove, and Jes Goodyear By Phil Sneiderman / Published June 23, 2016 It's tough to play video games when you have no fingers to push buttons on the controller. Just ask Gyorgy Levay, an avid gamer who lost both hands to a meningitis infection five years ago. But Levay and two fellow Johns Hopkins graduate students have devised a clever way get him—and others with similar disabilities—back in the game. Their solution—a sandal-like controller that allows a player to control the on-screen action with his or her feet—recently won the $7,500 grand prize in the 2016 Intel-Cornell Cup, in which student inventors were judged on innovative applications of embedded technology. Image caption: Johns Hopkins biomedical engineering grad students, from left, Adam Li, Nate
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/17/robotic-arm-and-video-game-helps-stroke-victims/
Dolphin video game a bold new approach to helping stroke victims relearn motor skills | Hub
Hub staff report
Dolphin video game a bold new approach to helping stroke victims relearn motor skills 'Bandit's Shark Showdown,' created at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, challenges users to control dolphin's movements with robotic arm By Hub staff report / Published Nov 17, 2015 The Johns Hopkins University's School of Medicine's Brain, Learning, Animation, Movement lab has released an interactive video game, "Bandit's Shark Showdown," that could help rehabilitate stroke victims. An article published in the Nov. 23 issue of The New Yorker explores the inspiration and development process behind an app that combines cutting-edge robotics, neuroscience, and game design. Many stroke victims suffer hemiparesis, weakness on one side of their body. But, The New Yorker's Karen Russell writes, "the tissue death that results from stroke appears to trigger a self-repair program in the brain. For between one and three months, the brain enters a growth phase of molecular, physiological, and structural
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/26/brain-mapping-prosthetic-arm-hand/
Man moves individual fingers on prosthetic arm using only his thoughts | Hub
Vanessa McMains
Man moves individual fingers on prosthetic arm using only his thoughts Technology could one day restore hand function to those who have lost arms to injury or disease, Johns Hopkins researchers say The subject uses his mind to move individual fingers on a prosthetic arm. Video: Journal of Neural Engineering By Vanessa McMains / Published Feb 26, 2016 Physicians and biomedical engineers from Johns Hopkins report what they believe is the first successful effort to wiggle fingers individually and independently of one another using a mind-controlled artificial "arm" to control the movement. Image caption: An illustration showing the electrode array on the subject’s brain, including a representation of what part of the brain controls each finger Image credit: Guy Hotson The proof-of-concept feat, described recently in the Journal of Neural Engineering, represents a potential advance in technologies to restore refined hand function to those who have lost arms to injury
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/17/amputee-makes-history/
Amputee becomes first to simultaneously use two APL Modular Prosthetic Limbs | Hub
Paulette Campbell
Amputee becomes first to simultaneously use two APL Modular Prosthetic Limbs Muscle reinnervation allows man to control prosthetics with his thoughts By Paulette Campbell / Published Dec 17, 2014 A Colorado man made history at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory this summer when he became the first bilateral shoulder-level amputee to wear and simultaneously control two of the laboratory's Modular Prosthetic Limbs. Most importantly, Les Baugh, who lost both arms in an electrical accident 40 years ago, was able to operate the system by simply thinking about moving his limbs, performing a variety of tasks during a short training period. Baugh was in town for two weeks in June as part of an APL-funded research effort to further assess the usability of the MPL, developed over the past decade as part of the Revolutionizing Prosthetics Program. Before putting the limb system through the paces, Baugh had to undergo
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/01/02/prosthetic-arm-60-minutes/
APL-built prosthetic arm controlled by thought | Hub
Hub staff report
APL-built prosthetic arm controlled by thought Technology connects robotic limb to human brain Credit: Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory By Hub staff report / Published Jan 2, 2013 Sunday's episode of "60 Minutes" featured a segment on the remarkable, thought-controlled prosthetic hand and arm engineered by a team led by the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory. In his report, Scott Pelley visits with APL's Michael McLoughlin, who leads the federally funded project, and with Albert Chi, a Johns Hopkins trauma surgeon experienced in targeted innervations—the rerouting of nerves through spare muscle so that amputees can operate motorized prosthetics using motor commands. Read the complete "60 Minutes" report &nbsp; &nbsp; Posted in Health, Science+Technology Tagged applied physics laboratory, biomedical engineering, prosthetics Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on X Share on Facebook
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/12/17/apl-prosthetic-arm/
Johns Hopkins research offers woman new arm, 14 years after amputation | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins research offers woman new arm, 14 years after amputation Thought-controlled prosthetic developed at Applied Physics Laboratory By Hub staff report / Published Dec 17, 2012 Sunday's edition of The Baltimore Sun included a front-page story about Dana Burke, a Pennsylvania woman who lost most of her right arm to a hollow-point bullet 14 years ago. More from The Sun: Burke soon will be one of the world's first amputees to replace her lost limb with a high-tech, thought-controlled prosthetic capable of nearly matching the dexterity of flesh and bone. It's the fruit of a federally funded project at Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory six years in the making, intended to aid wounded war veterans. But Burke's case is a medical marvel, her doctor said, that could change amputation surgery and recovery for all patients. "It shouldn't really be possible with a typical above-elbow amputation," said Army Capt. Michael
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/11/21/3d-hand-albert-chi/
Letters from fifth-graders convince Johns Hopkins surgeon to create prosthetic hand for teacher | Hub
Hub staff report
Letters from fifth-graders convince Johns Hopkins surgeon to create prosthetic hand for teacher Image caption: Surrounded by her former fourth graders, Patti Anderson raises her hand after being presented with a prosthetic made using a 3-D printer by Dr. Albert Chi Credit: Kristen Miller/Johns Hopkins Medicine By Hub staff report / Published Nov 21, 2014 The North Pole is a common post mark for children's letters this time of year. But a fifth grade class from Allentown, Pa., sent its wish list to a different destination—East Baltimore—with high hopes to help a former teacher. According to the Morning Call, fifth-graders at Western Salisbury Elementary School recently sent handwritten letters to Albert Chi, an assistant professor of surgery in the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, asking the trauma surgeon to make one of his pioneering, low-cost prosthetic hands for their former fourth-grade teacher. Chi and his 3-D printer came through in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/12/prosthetic-limb-more-mobility-apl/
Titanium implant unlocks new levels of operability for prosthetic arm | Hub
Paulette Campbell
Titanium implant unlocks new levels of operability for prosthetic arm Pioneering surgical technique 'a really big jump' for prosthetic development, Applied Physics Laboratory expert says Video: JHU Applied Physics Laboratory By Paulette Campbell / Published Jan 12, 2016 A pioneering surgical technique has allowed an amputee to attach the a prosthetic limb developed by the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory directly to his residual limb, enabling a greater range of motion and comfort than previously possible. Image caption: Patient Johnny Matheny tests the Modular Prosthetic Limb attached to a new titanium implant. Image credit: JHU Applied Physics Laboratory This is a first for the field of prosthetics, said Michael McLoughlin, chief engineer in APL's Research and Exploratory Development Department. "This accomplishment has eliminated one of the biggest gaps in prosthetic development: the socket," McLoughlin said. The socket—the part of the prosthesis that attaches to the body—is the most critical
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/23/apl-prosthetics-fast-company/
JHU Applied Physics Lab named one of world's most innovative companies | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU Applied Physics Lab named one of world's most innovative companies 'Fast Company' magazine recognizes APL for revolutionary prosthetics By Hub staff report / Published Feb 23, 2016 Revolutionary breakthroughs in neurally controlled prosthetics of unprecedented capability by the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory have earned APL recognition as one of the world's most innovative companies of 2016 by Fast Company magazine. The editors of Fast Company selected APL fifth on their list of the world's 10 most innovative healthcare organizations. Fast Company's "Most Innovative Companies of 2016" list, featured in its March 2016 issue, was compiled by their editors and writers, who sought out companies that are solving tough problems and using high-level creativity. The resulting list is "a collection of remarkable organizations that are truly disrupting business-as-usual across the world," according to the publication. The magazine recognized 350 companies in 35 sectors overall. Of APL, Fast Company
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/28/inventors-competition-breast-cancer-cryotherapy/
Johns Hopkins undergraduate team named finalist in Collegiate Inventors Competition | Hub
Hub staff report
Undergraduate research Johns Hopkins undergraduate team named finalist in Collegiate Inventors Competition Team improved upon cryotherapy device designed to treat breast cancer in rural Africa By Hub staff report / Published Sept 28, 2016 An undergraduate team from Johns Hopkins University has been named a finalist in the 2016 Collegiate Inventors Competition, which will take place in Washington, D.C., in November. The team, all students in JHU's Department of Biomedical Engineering, improved on a cryotherapy device developed by Johns Hopkins students for use in rural Africa, where women who are diagnosed with breast cancer often have limited access to treatment. The device features a reusable probe that delivers liquid nitrogen or gas to breast cancer cells, freezing them. Team leader Bailey Surtees worked alongside Team Kubanda, which developed the initial proof-of-concept design last year. Surtees, a senior, is joined this year by senior Clarisse Hu, junior Serena Thomas, and sophomore
http://hub.jhu.edu/2012/11/13/undergraduate-research-faststitch
 JHU undergraduate team wins national collegiate inventors contest | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
JHU undergraduate team wins national collegiate inventors contest Team developed disposable suturing tool to guide placement of stitches By Phil Sneiderman / Published Nov 13, 2012 An undergraduate biomedical engineering team from Johns Hopkins won the $12,500 first prize today in the 2012 Collegiate Inventors Competition for devising a disposable suturing tool to guide the placement of stitches and guard against the accidental puncture of internal organs. The winners were announced earlier today during an awards ceremony at the Newseum in Washington, D.C. The FastStitch team from Johns Hopkins was represented by Leslie Myint, Daniel Peng, Andy Tu, and Stephen Van Kooten. In addition, a $4,000 award will go to the students' faculty adviser, Robert Allen, an associate research professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering, which is shared between the university's School of Medicine and Whiting School of Engineering. The collegiate inventors contest, in its 22nd year, is run
http://hub.jhu.edu/2012/12/20/isaac-kinde-10-under-30
 JHU student, cancer researcher tabbed as rising star in health care | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU student, cancer researcher tabbed as rising star in health care MD-PhD candidate Kinde named to Forbes '30 under 30' list By Hub staff report / Published Dec 20, 2012 "Impatient to change the world." That's how Forbes describes the individuals recognized in its year-end "30 under 30" feature, 15 lists of the "brightest stars" under the age of 30 in fields ranging from Finance to Hollywood to Games & Apps. "In sum they represent the entrepreneurial, creative and intellectual best of their generation," the Forbes intro reads. "Individually, they are engaging, surprising and incredibly hardworking." Isaac Kinde, 29, an MD-PhD candidate at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, was among those selected for the Science & Healthcare list. "Kinde is developing techniques to improve the accuracy of DNA sequencing technology and demonstrating that it might be used to detect cancers arising from the colon, pancreas, and ovaries in a
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/11/12/college-inventors-competition
 Johns Hopkins undergraduate research team wins college inventors competition | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Johns Hopkins undergraduate research team wins college inventors competition Team developed device that could improve heart shock treatment Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Phil Sneiderman / Published Nov 12, 2013 A team of Johns Hopkins students devised a system to improve the way lifesaving shocks are delivered to hearts earned first prize in the undergraduate division at the national Collegiate Inventors Competition. In the graduate-level competition, Isaac Kinde, a Johns Hopkins medical student, received third-place honors for developing a test to detect ovarian and endometrial cancers. Winners in the Collegiate Inventors Competition were announced Tuesday after the finalists presented their projects to contest judges at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in Alexandria, Va. This year's judging involved 31 students representing 13 entries—six undergraduate and seven graduate projects—from universities and colleges across the United States. After the judging, all finalists were invited to the White House to
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/11/18/undergraduate-research-accuspine
 JHU undergraduate team takes second place in collegiate inventors contest | Hub
Mary Beth Regan
JHU undergraduate team takes second place in collegiate inventors contest Team developed probe to guide placement of screws during spinal fusion Image caption: AccuSpine team members (back row, from left to right) Erica Schwarz, Clay Andrews, and Ravindra Gaddipati; and (front row, from left to right) Bradley Isaacs, Adarsha Malla, Anvesh Annadanam, Luis Herrera, and Eric Xie By Mary Beth Regan / Published Nov 18, 2014 A Johns Hopkins biomedical engineering student team has placed second in the undergraduate division of the Collegiate Inventors Competition for its AccuSpine probe, marking the third consecutive year that a Johns Hopkins team has been awarded a top prize in this challenge. Image caption: The AccuSpine probe prototype The winners were announced Monday during an awards ceremony at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in Alexandria, Va., after finalists presented their prototypes in a daylong exposition held by contest organizers Invent Now and the
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/03/design-day-breast-cancer-treatment-south-africa/
 Johns Hopkins student team develops reusable cryotherapy device to help treat breast cancer in rural South Africa | Hub
Karen Blum
Johns Hopkins student team develops reusable cryotherapy device to help treat breast cancer in rural South Africa Image caption: BME undergraduate students (from left to right) Monica Rex, Ben Lee, and Sonia Trukru are part of a nine-member team working to find a new treatment option for breast cancer patients, who live in low-resource areas such as South Africa By Karen Blum / Published May 3, 2016 When radiologist Susan Harvey, director of breast imaging at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, was searching for ways to improve access to breast cancer diagnostics and therapeutics in South Africa, she turned to the Johns Hopkins Center for Bioengineering Innovation and Design, which focuses on training the next generation of biomedical engineers. Monica Rex, a senior biomedical engineering and Spanish major from Orlando, Florida, and her five-member student design team jumped at the idea. Within a month of meeting last summer, Rex
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/cancer/
 Cancer | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Cancer Faculty honors Two named to National Academy of Inventors Published Dec 20, 2023 Materials scientist Hai-Quan Mao, cancer researcher Victor Velculescu among 162 fellows recognized for contributions to science and society Diversity+Inclusion Faculty of Excellence Program cluster award winners announced Published Nov 1, 2023 10 new faculty members will be hired as part of an effort to bolster faculty diversity Mechanical engineering A new hope in cancer detection Published Oct 12, 2023 New nanoSABER technology allows clinicians to visualize tumors in their entirety, which could improve cancer imaging and outcomes Nanobiotechnology Tiny tubes target hard-to-treat cancer Published Sept 15, 2023 Technology developed by JHU engineers could eventually treat an aggressive type of breast cancer Interdisciplinary scholar Putting the brakes on cancer progression Published June 27, 2023 Mikala Egeblad, who studies how tumor microenvironments influence the growth and metastasis of cancer cells, joins the School of Medicine as
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/patient-safety/articles/
 Patient safety | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Patient safety Biomedical engineering Septic shock starts earlier than understood and develops distinct levels of patient risk Published Sept 23, 2020 Study finds that hospitals could categorize patients based on risk and develop early monitoring systems to detect early stages of septic shock Patient safety Critical history of a failed push for patient safety Published Dec 3, 2019 In her new book, Kathleen Sutcliffe explores the patient safety movement and why it has failed to deliver the gains promised over two decades of research, funding, and policymaking Nursing+Medicine Patient safety expert Kathryn McDonald named BDP Published Oct 22, 2019 McDonald, a leading expert in health care quality improvement and health systems organization, will hold primary appointments in the schools of Nursing and Medicine Physician training Battling med school burnout Published March 20, 2018 Study: Limiting the length of shifts for medical trainees improves their reported well-being but doesn't
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/surgery/articles/
 Surgery | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Surgery President's Frontier Award Trauma surgeon and gun violence survivor Joseph Sakran honored Published Feb 16, 2024 Sakran, director of emergency general surgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital, will receive a $250,000 grant to further his work among medical professionals to reduce firearm injuries and deaths Medtech X-rays mark the spot Published Nov 20, 2023 Machine learning could help improve efficiency of pelvic fracture surgery Biomedical engineering Medicine's problem-solvers Published May 23, 2018 Biomedical engineering program empowers undergrads to develop real-world solutions for improving patient care Surgery Hopkins performs world's first penis transplant Published April 23, 2018 Recipient is a combat veteran who sustained injuries while serving in Afghanistan Undergraduate research A simple way to stop the bleeding Published April 17, 2018 Engineering students devise blood-clotting 'super gel' that could make oft-repeated procedures more efficient and economical Racial, economic factors contribute to differences in surgical care Published Sept 20,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/11/13/undergraduate-research-faststitch/
JHU undergraduate team wins national collegiate inventors contest | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
JHU undergraduate team wins national collegiate inventors contest Team developed disposable suturing tool to guide placement of stitches By Phil Sneiderman / Published Nov 13, 2012 An undergraduate biomedical engineering team from Johns Hopkins won the $12,500 first prize today in the 2012 Collegiate Inventors Competition for devising a disposable suturing tool to guide the placement of stitches and guard against the accidental puncture of internal organs. The winners were announced earlier today during an awards ceremony at the Newseum in Washington, D.C. The FastStitch team from Johns Hopkins was represented by Leslie Myint, Daniel Peng, Andy Tu, and Stephen Van Kooten. In addition, a $4,000 award will go to the students' faculty adviser, Robert Allen, an associate research professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering, which is shared between the university's School of Medicine and Whiting School of Engineering. The collegiate inventors contest, in its 22nd year, is run
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/12/20/isaac-kinde-10-under-30/
JHU student, cancer researcher tabbed as rising star in health care | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU student, cancer researcher tabbed as rising star in health care MD-PhD candidate Kinde named to Forbes '30 under 30' list By Hub staff report / Published Dec 20, 2012 "Impatient to change the world." That's how Forbes describes the individuals recognized in its year-end "30 under 30" feature, 15 lists of the "brightest stars" under the age of 30 in fields ranging from Finance to Hollywood to Games & Apps. "In sum they represent the entrepreneurial, creative and intellectual best of their generation," the Forbes intro reads. "Individually, they are engaging, surprising and incredibly hardworking." Isaac Kinde, 29, an MD-PhD candidate at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, was among those selected for the Science & Healthcare list. "Kinde is developing techniques to improve the accuracy of DNA sequencing technology and demonstrating that it might be used to detect cancers arising from the colon, pancreas, and ovaries in a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/18/accuspine-bme-design-competition/
Johns Hopkins team wins NIH design competition with spinal surgery aid | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins team wins NIH design competition with spinal surgery aid AccuSpine aims to help surgeons perform safe, accurate spinal fusions Image caption: AccuSpine design team members (from left) Clay Andrews, Eric Xie, Adarsha Malla, Bradley Isaacs, Anvesh Annadanam, Erica Schwarz, and Ravi Gaddipati (not pictured: Luis Herrera). By Hub staff report / Published Aug 18, 2014 A team of Biomedical Engineering undergraduate students from Johns Hopkins recently won the 2014 Design by Biomedical Undergraduate Teams (DEBUT) Challenge for developing a device that aims to help surgeons safely and accurately place screws during spinal fusion procedures and surgeries for spinal abnormalities. The AccuSpine pedicle probe was designed by eight undergraduates: Clay Andrews, Eric Xie, Adarsha Malla, Bradley Isaacs, Anvesh Annadanam, Erica Schwarz, Ravi Gaddipati, and Luis Herrera. Their project began in July 2013 as part of a Center for Bioengineering Innovation and Design design team class. Their goal was to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/12/2015-collegiate-inventors-competition-finalists/
Two student teams from Johns Hopkins among Collegiate Inventors Competition finalists | Hub
Hub staff report
Two student teams from Johns Hopkins among Collegiate Inventors Competition finalists JHU undergraduates have finished among top two in contest's judging in each of the past three years Image caption: Top row (from left to right): Malvi Hemani, Melissa Lin, and Ian McLane. Bottom row: Huilei Wang, Kunal Patel, and Dimitra Emmanouilidou. By Hub staff report / Published Oct 12, 2015 Two teams from Johns Hopkins University have been named finalists in the 2015 Collegiate Inventors Competition, which will take place next month. The undergraduate team includes biomedical engineering students Malvi Hemani, Melissa Lin, Kunal Patel, and Huilei Wang. The team invented TocoTrack, a low-cost uterine contraction monitor. The device, designed to assist midwives in diagnosing labor complications, measures muscle stiffness and can filter out other movements, such as the patient's breathing. The team plans to partner with NGOs to distribute the device, and 10 test TocoTracks have already been
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/11/12/college-inventors-competition/
Johns Hopkins undergraduate research team wins college inventors competition | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Johns Hopkins undergraduate research team wins college inventors competition Team developed device that could improve heart shock treatment Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Phil Sneiderman / Published Nov 12, 2013 A team of Johns Hopkins students devised a system to improve the way lifesaving shocks are delivered to hearts earned first prize in the undergraduate division at the national Collegiate Inventors Competition. In the graduate-level competition, Isaac Kinde, a Johns Hopkins medical student, received third-place honors for developing a test to detect ovarian and endometrial cancers. Winners in the Collegiate Inventors Competition were announced Tuesday after the finalists presented their projects to contest judges at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in Alexandria, Va. This year's judging involved 31 students representing 13 entries—six undergraduate and seven graduate projects—from universities and colleges across the United States. After the judging, all finalists were invited to the White House to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/11/18/undergraduate-research-accuspine/
JHU undergraduate team takes second place in collegiate inventors contest | Hub
Mary Beth Regan
JHU undergraduate team takes second place in collegiate inventors contest Team developed probe to guide placement of screws during spinal fusion Image caption: AccuSpine team members (back row, from left to right) Erica Schwarz, Clay Andrews, and Ravindra Gaddipati; and (front row, from left to right) Bradley Isaacs, Adarsha Malla, Anvesh Annadanam, Luis Herrera, and Eric Xie By Mary Beth Regan / Published Nov 18, 2014 A Johns Hopkins biomedical engineering student team has placed second in the undergraduate division of the Collegiate Inventors Competition for its AccuSpine probe, marking the third consecutive year that a Johns Hopkins team has been awarded a top prize in this challenge. Image caption: The AccuSpine probe prototype The winners were announced Monday during an awards ceremony at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in Alexandria, Va., after finalists presented their prototypes in a daylong exposition held by contest organizers Invent Now and the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/06/robot-soft-tissue-surgery/
Johns Hopkins scientist programs robot to perform 'soft tissue' surgery | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
Johns Hopkins scientist programs robot to perform 'soft tissue' surgery By Arthur Hirsch / Published May 6, 2016 Not even the surest surgeon's hand is quite as steady and consistent as a robotic arm built of metal and plastic, programmed to perform the same motions over and over. And limited robotic automation is already used in surgeries involving rigid structures such as bones. But can a robot handle the slips and squirms of soft tissues during a surgery? Simon Leonard, a Johns Hopkins University computer scientist, is part of a team that has published research showing that a robot surgeon can indeed adjust to the subtle movement and deformation of soft tissue to execute precise and consistent suturing. The research, which was published earlier this week in the journal Science Translational Medicine, promises to improve results for patients and make the best surgical techniques more widely available. "There's a wide
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/23/muyinatu-bell-mit-young-innovators/
Johns Hopkins engineer honored by 'MIT Technology Review' as top young innnovator | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Innovators under 35 Johns Hopkins engineer honored by 'MIT Technology Review' as top young innnovator Muyinatu Bell mixes sound, light, robotic technology to enhance medical imaging Image caption: Muyinatu Bell Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Phil Sneiderman / Published Aug 23, 2016 Muyinatu A. Lediju Bell, a Johns Hopkins engineering professor who designs medical imaging systems that link light, sound, and robotics to produce clearer pictures, was honored today by MIT Technology Review, which placed her on its prestigious 2016 list of 35 Innovators Under 35. The list annually spotlights the nation's most promising young scientists. The magazine recognized Bell for her innovative work in the fields of biotechnology and medicine. She is one of nine "Inventors" on the list who are "building the stuff of the future." The honor places her in lofty company. "I keep track of people who've been on the list, and I
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/06/global-health-field-placements-2016/
Center for Global Health funds 52 field placements around the world for Johns Hopkins students | Hub
Hub staff report
Center for Global Health funds 52 field placements around the world for Johns Hopkins students By Hub staff report / Published Oct 6, 2016 Brooke Farrenkopf spent two months this summer at the forefront of Ghana's battle with mosquito-borne diseases, helping to distribute insecticide-treated nets to prevent the spread of malaria. The graduate student, who celebrated her 24th birthday shortly after returning to the U.S., is one of the 52 Johns Hopkins students to have been awarded a Global Health Established Field Placement, a $3,500 grant to study abroad provided by the Johns Hopkins Center for Global Health. While in Ghana, she helped ensure the success of VectorWorks, a project funded by the President's Malaria Initiative and led by Johns Hopkins Center for Communication Programs that is charged with assisting the Ghanaian government with providing mosquito nets to the entire population. "The field placements enable students from many disciplines to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/07/cryotherapy-breast-cancer-invention-wins-third/
Johns Hopkins undergrad team wins bronze in Collegiate Inventors Competition | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Undergrad research Johns Hopkins undergrad team wins bronze in Collegiate Inventors Competition Students devised low-cost cryotherapy system to treat breast cancer in rural South Africa By Phil Sneiderman / Published Nov 7, 2016 A reusable cryotherapy system that could bring low-cost breast cancer treatment to women in rural South Africa has won the bronze prize for a Johns Hopkins University biomedical engineering team in the undergraduate category of the 2016 National Collegiate Inventors Competition. Prize winners were announced Friday at an event in Washington, D.C. Image caption: The Cryoablation team who competed at the Collegiate Inventors Competition includes (from left) Bailey Surtees, Sarah Lee, Yixin Clarisse Hu, and Serena Thomas. The Johns Hopkins Cryoablation team, one of five undergraduate finalists in the contest, has been working for more than a year on a reusable freezing device tool to kill breast tumors. The system is being developed for rural women who
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/28/inventors-competition-breast-cancer-cryotherapy/
 Johns Hopkins undergraduate team named finalist in Collegiate Inventors Competition | Hub
Hub staff report
Undergraduate research Johns Hopkins undergraduate team named finalist in Collegiate Inventors Competition Team improved upon cryotherapy device designed to treat breast cancer in rural Africa By Hub staff report / Published Sept 28, 2016 An undergraduate team from Johns Hopkins University has been named a finalist in the 2016 Collegiate Inventors Competition, which will take place in Washington, D.C., in November. The team, all students in JHU's Department of Biomedical Engineering, improved on a cryotherapy device developed by Johns Hopkins students for use in rural Africa, where women who are diagnosed with breast cancer often have limited access to treatment. The device features a reusable probe that delivers liquid nitrogen or gas to breast cancer cells, freezing them. Team leader Bailey Surtees worked alongside Team Kubanda, which developed the initial proof-of-concept design last year. Surtees, a senior, is joined this year by senior Clarisse Hu, junior Serena Thomas, and sophomore
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/01/27/face-time-with-physicians/
Want more face time with your doctor? Arrive early for your appointment | Hub
Rachel Butch
Want more face time with your doctor? Arrive early for your appointment Johns Hopkins study suggests doctors spend less time with tardy patients By Rachel Butch / Published Jan 27, 2017 Clinicians spend more time face-to-face with their patients when the clinic operates on schedule compared to when the clinic is running late, a study from the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine has found. "There is always tension between spending time with patients so they leave feeling I've really listened to them and keeping patients' wait times down." Kayode Williams, School of Medicine The researchers say the retrospective study, summarized in a 2016 report published in BMJ Open, confirms for health care services what is a commonly observed phenomenon in grocery store and bank teller lines: Once lines get backed up, service providers become less consistent in their behaviors and "shortchange" time spent with customers in order to catch
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/31/armstrong-center-diagnosis/
Johns Hopkins launches new center to reduce diagnostic errors | Hub
Hub staff report
Patient safety Johns Hopkins launches new center to reduce diagnostic errors Armstrong Institute Center for Diagnostic Excellence aims to save lives through better diagnoses By Hub staff report / Published Oct 31, 2016 A headache can be just a migraine, or it can be something more. It could be caused by a number of different health concerns: allergies, stress, or possibly worse—a stroke. Headaches are just one of the many symptoms that often lead doctors to misdiagnose a medical issue. Research shows that diagnostic errors affect roughly one in 20 adults in the U.S., or 12 million Americans a year. As many as one-third of these errors may result in serious permanent injuries, including disability or death. To address this issue, Johns Hopkins Medicine today announced the opening of the Armstrong Institute Center for Diagnostic Excellence. The center—which will be led by David Newman-Toker, Johns Hopkins associate professor of neurology
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/03/medical-errors-third-leading-cause-of-death/
Johns Hopkins study suggests medical errors are third-leading cause of death in U.S. | Hub
Vanessa McMains
Johns Hopkins study suggests medical errors are third-leading cause of death in U.S. Physicians advocate for changes in how deaths are reported By Vanessa McMains / Published May 3, 2016 Analyzing medical death rate data over an eight-year period, Johns Hopkins patient safety experts have calculated that more than 250,000 deaths per year are due to medical error in the U.S. Their figure, published May 3 in The BMJ, surpasses the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's third leading cause of death—respiratory disease, which kills close to 150,000 people per year. Image caption: Martin Makary The Johns Hopkins team says the CDC's way of collecting national health statistics fails to classify medical errors separately on the death certificate. The researchers are advocating for updated criteria for classifying deaths on death certificates. "Incidence rates for deaths directly attributable to medical care gone awry haven't been recognized in any standardized method
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/07/armstrong-institute-patient-safety-grant/
Johns Hopkins will share surgical care protocols with 750 U.S. hospitals | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins will share surgical care protocols with 750 U.S. hospitals Armstrong Institute receives multimillion dollar grant aimed at improving patient safety, overall experience By Hub staff report / Published Feb 7, 2017 From the time a surgeon decides to operate until the time a patient is discharged after a procedure, hospitals that use enhanced recovery after surgery protocols—or ERAS—are able to reduce complications, decrease lengths of stay in the hospital, and increase the overall patient experience. The Johns Hopkins Armstrong Institute for Patient Safety and Quality, in collaboration with the American College of Surgeons, has been granted a multimillion dollar contract to implement those ERAS protocols in 750 hospitals across the United States. "With the success of ERAS at our hospital, we are excited to share this approach with other hospitals," says Michael Rosen, an associate professor with the Armstrong Institute. "This will be an important step in improving
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/31/med-school-should-require-business-management-classes/
Johns Hopkins experts propose business training requirement for med students | Hub
Patrick Ercolano
Johns Hopkins experts propose business training requirement for med students Health care increasingly requires business management acumen, authors say By Patrick Ercolano / Published March 31, 2017 Modern health care increasingly demands that people working at all levels of the industry—from community physicians to hospital CEOs—possess strong business management skills to go along with their medical know-how. By and large, however, they don't possess those skills, and in order to remedy that shortcoming, a "Management 101" course should be embedded into the curriculum of every medical school, say two Johns Hopkins University professors in an invited commentary for Academic Medicine. Image caption: Christopher Myers (left) and Peter Pronovost Christopher Myers, an assistant professor at the Johns Hopkins Carey Business School and co-author of the commentary, says many medical professionals have received some management or leadership training, but it has tended to come through a widely varied and unsystematic approach that
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/05/08/design-day-challenges-students-to-perfect-their-pitch/
For JHU's Engineering Design Day, students perfect their pitches and showcase their prototypes | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
For JHU's Engineering Design Day, students perfect their pitches and showcase their prototypes Annual year-end event unites all of Whiting School departments for one day of presentations for the first time Video: Whiting School of Engineering By Saralyn Lyons / Published May 8, 2017 In locations across Johns Hopkins on Tuesday, engineering students will present the projects they've spent a semester or more working on as part of Engineering Design Day—the annual year-end Whiting School of Engineering event in which students tasked with designing solutions to real-world problems display their research, devices, and prototypes. Take for example Irving Nestor, a junior in computer engineering, and Alex Bocchieri, a junior in electrical engineering, who since January have led a team of fellow undergrads in building a device to scan the body for skin cancer lesions. Their concept, DermaScan, is part of a system developed by Jin Kang, a professor of electrical
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/06/26/infectious-disease-emergency-preparedness/
Infectious disease preparedness, response tool draws on lessons learned from U.S. Ebola cases | Hub

Infectious disease preparedness, response tool draws on lessons learned from U.S. Ebola cases Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, CDC develop checklist for medical, public health professionals Published June 26, 2017 Researchers from the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have developed a checklist that outlines action steps for medical and public health officials to assess and strengthen the resilience of their community's health sector to high-consequence infectious disease, or HCID, events. The checklist offers comprehensive guidance on recommended improvements to the interconnected preparedness and response capabilities of the public, private, and community organizations that comprise local health sectors. "One of the key findings of our research is the diversity of people who end up being involved in a response and how interrelated they are, including many who never expected to be involved," said Eric Toner, senior associate at the center
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/07/07/handwritten-prescriptions-opioid-errors/
Handwritten opioid prescriptions contain more mistakes than those that are electronically generated | Hub
Rachel Butch
Handwritten opioid prescriptions contain more mistakes than those that are electronically generated Study examines how prescription processing methods contribute to variations, inconsistencies, errors in opioid distribution By Rachel Butch / Published July 7, 2017 In a small study of opioid prescriptions filled at a Johns Hopkins Medicine outpatient pharmacy, researchers found that handwritten orders for the drugs contribute to a disproportionate number of prescribing and processing errors compared to prescriptions created electronically. Of the 510 prescriptions studied, 42 percent of prescriptions contained some error, researchers found. The quality improvement study, described in a report published in the January/February issue of The Journal of Opioid Management, aimed to determine whether and how prescription processing methods contribute to variations, inconsistencies, and errors in opioid distribution. Overall, the investigators found that 92 percent of handwritten prescriptions either failed to meet ideal practice standards, contained such errors as the absence of at least two
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/20/opioids-not-stored-safely-in-homes-with-children/
Majority of opioid medications not safely stored in homes with children, survey finds | Hub
Barbara Benham
Majority of opioid medications not safely stored in homes with children, survey finds Credit: moodboard By Barbara Benham / Published Feb 20, 2017 Nearly 70 percent of prescription opioid medications kept in homes with children are not stored safely, a new study by researchers at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health finds. In a 2015 national online survey, researchers identified 681 adults who had used opioid pain relievers in the past year and had children ages 17 and younger living with them. Only 31 percent reported safely storing prescriptions away from their children. Among those homes with children 7 to 17 years old, just 12 percent reported safe storage. A 2014 national survey identified opioids as the second most common illicit drug-use category among 12- to 17-year-olds, after marijuana. For homes with younger children, the researchers defined safe storage as keeping the medication in a locked or latched
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/01/09/travis-rieder-opioids-withdrawal/
After harrowing opioid experience, Hopkins bioethicist says doctors must do more to help patients through withdrawal | Hub
Katie Pearce
Prescription drugs After harrowing opioid experience, Hopkins bioethicist says doctors must do more to help patients through withdrawal By Katie Pearce / Published Jan 9, 2017 After a month of white-knuckling his way through the nausea, sweating, shivering, and depression of opioid withdrawal, Travis Rieder finally gave in and refilled his prescription. But he put that bottle of pills—which he'd been prescribed in the aftermath of a motorcycle accident and several foot surgeries—on his nightstand and didn't touch them. When he got to sleep that night without them, it was his first true rest in days. In 2013, medical providers in the U.S. wrote nearly a quarter of a billion prescriptions for opioids. That's enough for every American adult to have their own bottle of pills. "I had come out on the other side," Rieder, a bioethicist at Johns Hopkins, writes in an article published today in Health Affairs. For
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/09/prescription-painkillers-doctors/
Primary care doctors report prescribing fewer opioids for pain | Hub
Stephanie Desmon and Barbara Benham
Primary care doctors report prescribing fewer opioids for pain Concerns about prescription drug abuse, addiction may affect physicians' prescribing habits, research suggests By Stephanie Desmon and Barbara Benham / Published Dec 9, 2014 Nine in 10 primary care physicians say that prescription drug abuse is a moderate or big problem in their communities, and nearly half say they are less likely to prescribe opioids to treat pain compared to a year ago, new research from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health suggests. Primary care doctors also appear to recognize many of the risks associated with prescription opioid use, including addiction and death by overdose, according to the findings reported Monday in JAMA Internal Medicine. "Our findings suggest that primary care providers have become aware of the scope of the prescription opioid crisis and are responding in ways that are important, including reducing their overreliance on these medicines," says
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/16/bill-clinton-prescription-drug-abuse-event/
At JHU event, Bill Clinton urges action on prescription drug abuse epidemic | Hub
Greg Rienzi
At JHU event, Bill Clinton urges action on prescription drug abuse epidemic Former president kicks off School of Public Health town hall meeting By Greg Rienzi / Published May 16, 2014 Pills intended to ease pain have become agents of death at an alarming rate. Image caption: Bill Clinton The United States currently faces a growing epidemic in the form of prescription drug abuse, according to President Bill Clinton and an expert panel who gathered on May 13 at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health for a town hall discussion co-hosted by the school and the Clinton Foundation's Health Matters Initiative. The town hall, "Prescription Drug Abuse: Evidence Informing Action," was held on the one-year anniversary of the Clinton Foundation's announcement of its intent to address prescription drug misuse. The numbers are disquieting. One person dies every 19 minutes in the United States from a drug overdose, now
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/01/19/injury-research-center-30th/
Johns Hopkins center marks three decades of injury research | Hub
Katie Pearce
Milestone Johns Hopkins center marks three decades of injury research CIRP director Andrea Gielen talks about latest work on the opioid crisis By Katie Pearce / Published Jan 19, 2017 Before the field of injury prevention existed in any formal capacity, Johns Hopkins epidemiologist Susan Baker was already conducting research into injuries, pioneering studies on drunk-driving accidents, chokings, and playground safety. Building a national reputation for her work, Baker in 1987 received funding to create the Johns Hopkins Center for Injury Research and Policy. "Injury prevention expertise can help urban planners, architects, and community organizations, so the public can be active as well as safe." Andrea Gielen, Center for Injury Research and Policy director Over the past three decades, the center's multidisciplinary team at the Bloomberg School of Public Health has contributed critical research on the country's leading causes of injuries, along with prevention strategies—airbags, smoke alarms, bike helmets, and
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/18/tamper-resistant-bottle-prescription-painkillers/
 Tamper-proof pill bottle could help curb prescription painkiller misuse, abuse | Hub
Phil Sneiderman and Lisa Ercolano
Tamper-proof pill bottle could help curb prescription painkiller misuse, abuse JHU mechanical engineering students design high-tech device in response to challenge from Center for Injury Research and Policy Video: Deirdre Hammer and David Schmelick By Phil Sneiderman and Lisa Ercolano / Published June 18, 2015 You can whack it with a hammer, attack it with a drill, even stab it with a screwdriver. But try as you might, you won't be able to tamper with a high-tech pill dispenser designed by mechanical engineering students at Johns Hopkins University's Whiting School of Engineering. Image credit: Data from U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Which is exactly the point. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has estimated that drug overdoses kill more than 44,000 Americans annually, including more than 16,000 deaths from prescription drugs. Federal officials also say that at least one in 20 Americans ingests drugs prescribed for
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/center-injury-research-and-policy/articles/
 Center for injury research and policy | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Center for injury research and policy Safe travels? Published May 9, 2018 Unlike hotels, many Airbnb rentals aren't regulated by standard safety requirements, making injury prevention more challenging, researchers say Milestone 30 years of injury research Published Jan 19, 2017 Andrea Gielen discusses CIRP's legacy of developing life-saving preventions, efforts to take on the opioid crisis Drivers not required On the road to safety Published March 24, 2016 Experts discuss challenges of making self-driving cars that improve, save lives Unbreakable? Smart pill dispenser Published June 18, 2015 Video Tamper-proof bottle designed by students could help curb prescription painkiller misuse, abuse
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/prescription-drugs/articles/
 Prescription drugs | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Prescription drugs 3 Questions Medicare drug price negotiations Published Aug 31, 2023 Medicare beneficiaries will get transparent drug prices for the first time in history, explains Johns Hopkins expert Mariana Socal Policy briefing Prescription drug shortages force tough treatment decisions Published June 5, 2023 Hopkins experts discuss current shortages in chemotherapy drugs, antibiotics, and other critical medicines—and how to overcome them Public health Documents highlight role of pharmacies in driving opioid epidemic Published Oct 14, 2022 The latest documents added to the Opioid Industry Documents Archive illustrate the repeated failure of retail pharmacies to heed warning signs and safety guidelines Opioid epidemic Documents show McKinsey's role in fueling opioid crisis Published June 30, 2022 Consulting firm's work with pharmaceutical companies to help increase sales detailed in UCSF-JHU opioid documents archive Q+A A spring cleaning remedy for nationwide opioid epidemic Published April 23, 2021 Drug safety experts discuss safe
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/11/09/sue-baker-injury-prevention/
Baker studies why people die, what could be done to stop it | Hub
Hub staff report
Baker studies why people die, what could be done to stop it School of Public Health professor has devoted her career to injury prevention Image caption: Susan Baker, founding director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Injury Research and Policy Credit: Keith Weller By Hub staff report / Published Nov 9, 2012 The career of Susan Baker, the founding director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Injury Research and Policy, is the subject of an article in the Oct. 28 edition of the New York Times Magazine. "Safety Lessons from the Morgue" details the events that led Baker to become a pioneer of injury research, and eventually to found the Center for Injury Research at Johns Hopkins. "When I started, injury was not an area that most public health researchers were concerned with," Baker says. "I was appalled at the number of preventable deaths I saw during my time in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/18/tamper-resistant-bottle-prescription-painkillers/
Tamper-proof pill bottle could help curb prescription painkiller misuse, abuse | Hub
Phil Sneiderman and Lisa Ercolano
Tamper-proof pill bottle could help curb prescription painkiller misuse, abuse JHU mechanical engineering students design high-tech device in response to challenge from Center for Injury Research and Policy Video: Deirdre Hammer and David Schmelick By Phil Sneiderman and Lisa Ercolano / Published June 18, 2015 You can whack it with a hammer, attack it with a drill, even stab it with a screwdriver. But try as you might, you won't be able to tamper with a high-tech pill dispenser designed by mechanical engineering students at Johns Hopkins University's Whiting School of Engineering. Image credit: Data from U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Which is exactly the point. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has estimated that drug overdoses kill more than 44,000 Americans annually, including more than 16,000 deaths from prescription drugs. Federal officials also say that at least one in 20 Americans ingests drugs prescribed for
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/24/driverless-cars-symposium-public-health/
The road to safety: What self-driving cars mean for public health | Hub
Maryalice Yakutchik
The road to safety: What self-driving cars mean for public health Image caption: A Google self-driving car at an intersection. Credit: Grendelkhan By Maryalice Yakutchik / Published March 24, 2016 A version of this article was originally published by Global Health Now, a news and information source for the global health community produced by the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Autonomous vehicles are poised to transform the daily commute of millions of people, but how will they affect public health? Five experts gathered at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health on Tuesday to address that topic, discussing the impact of partial and fully autonomous vehicles on everything from car insurance to driver training and licensing to roadway fatalities. Mark R. Rosekind, administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said autonomous vehicles could be game-changing in terms of saving lives, noting that 32,675 were killed on
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/08/22/ebola-spread-infectious-disease-protein-materials-science/
Materials scientists probe a protein's role in speeding Ebola's spread | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Materials scientists probe a protein's role in speeding Ebola's spread Researchers hope inhibiting protein's production could curb Ebola's ability to infect others By Phil Sneiderman / Published Aug 22, 2017 Two Johns Hopkins University materials science graduate students and their professors played a key role in a multi-institution research project that pinpointed how a tiny protein seems to make the deadly Ebola virus particularly contagious. Image caption: Graduate student Alexander Komin (left) and materials scientist Kalina Hristova. Image credit: Phil Sneiderman/JHU This finding, published in the Journal of Virology, could steer scientists toward a treatment targeting the protein, called a delta peptide, which could curb Ebola's ability to spread quickly from infected patients to family members and health care workers. Ebola's ability to spread rapidly contributed to more than 28,000 cases and 11,000 deaths recorded during the 2013-14 Ebola outbreak that ravaged West Africa. More recently, a smaller outbreak in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/09/06/unneeded-medical-care-hopkins-survey/
In survey, doctors say unneeded medical care is common, driven by fear of malpractice | Hub
Chanapa Tantibanchachai
In survey, doctors say unneeded medical care is common, driven by fear of malpractice Johns Hopkins research team conducts national survey of more than 2,000 physicians Credit: Getty Images By Chanapa Tantibanchachai / Published Sept 6, 2017 A national survey of more than 2,000 doctors across multiple specialties finds that physicians believe overtreatment is common and primarily perpetuated by fear of malpractice, as well as patient demand and some profit motives. A report on the findings, published today in PLOS ONE, highlights physicians' perspectives on unnecessary health care practices and the potential causes and solutions. "Unnecessary medical care is a leading driver of the higher health insurance premiums affecting every American." Martin MakaryProfessor of surgery and health policy "Unnecessary medical care is a leading driver of the higher health insurance premiums affecting every American," says Martin Makary, professor of surgery and health policy at the Johns Hopkins University School of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/05/30/hospital-markups-340-percent-over-medicare/
Emergency room patients routinely overcharged, Johns Hopkins study finds | Hub
Vanessa McMains
Emergency room patients routinely overcharged, Johns Hopkins study finds 'Price gouging' especially prevalent among for-profit hospitals that treat minorities, uninsured patients Credit: Spotmatik By Vanessa McMains / Published May 30, 2017 In emergency rooms across the U.S., people are charged on average 340 percent more than what Medicare pays for services and treatments, with minorities and uninsured patients bearing the brunt of overcharges, a new study from the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine has found. The study, published online today in JAMA Internal Medicine, illustrates the need for greater transparency in hospital pricing, says senior investigator Martin Makary, a professor of surgery at JHU's School of Medicine. "There are massive disparities in service costs across emergency rooms, and that price gouging is the worst for the most vulnerable populations," Makary says. "Our study found that inequality is then further compounded on poor, minority groups, who are more likely to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/08/hospital-markups-price-gouging/
Study: Hospitals charge more than 20 times cost on some procedures to maximize revenue | Hub
Patrick Ercolano
Study: Hospitals charge more than 20 times cost on some procedures to maximize revenue CT scans, anesthesiology departments have highest average charge-to-cost ratios, Johns Hopkins researchers say By Patrick Ercolano / Published Sept 8, 2016 Image caption: Ge Bai (left) and Gerard F. Anderson Hospitals on average charged more than 20 times their own costs in 2013 in their CT scan and anesthesiology departments, according to new research from Johns Hopkins University, suggesting that hospitals strategically use markups to maximize revenue. The study, which appears in the September issue of Health Affairs, notes that many hospital executives say the prices determined by an individual hospital for billable procedures and supplies—collectively called the hospital's "chargemaster" list— are irrelevant to patients. However, the relation between chargemaster markups and hospital revenue, and the variation in markups across hospitals and departments, show that hospitals can still use markups to enhance revenues, say the study's
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/01/17/price-markups-out-of-network-providers/
U.S. patients often face costly 'surprise' medical bills from out-of-network specialists | Hub
Stephanie Desmon
U.S. patients often face costly 'surprise' medical bills from out-of-network specialists Anesthesiologists, for example, charge almost six times what Medicare pays for the same service By Stephanie Desmon / Published Jan 17, 2017 The average anesthesiologist, emergency physician, pathologist, and radiologist charge more than four times what Medicare pays for similar services, often leaving privately insured consumers stuck with surprise medical bills that are much higher than they anticipated, new research published in the Journal of the American Medical Association suggests. Image caption: Ge Bai (left) and Gerard F. Anderson The problem is that most patients do not actually choose these doctors with the highest markups, which mean they have no opportunity to anticipate how high their bills will be, say the researchers from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and the Carey Business School. The highest price markups belong to anesthesiologists, who charge six times what Medicare
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/11/single-payer-health-care-101/
A closer look at single-payer health care and how it works | Hub
Hub staff report
Health policy A closer look at single-payer health care and how it works Johns Hopkins experts explain health insurance alternative mentioned during presidential debate By Hub staff report / Published Oct 11, 2016 During Sunday's heated presidential debate, an audience member raised the issue of health care, asking Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump about their plans to bring down costs and to make coverage better. Both of the candidates' responses included references to a "single-payer plan." What does that mean, and could it work in the U.S.? For insight, we turned to experts from Johns Hopkins University's Bloomberg School of Public Health. In a segment of WYPR's On the Record on Monday morning, Bradley Herring, an associate professor in the Department of Health Policy and Management at the Bloomberg School, explained what a single-payer system is and how it works. Image caption: Bradley Herring (left) and Gerard Anderson "The simplest
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/08/hospital-markups-price-gouging/
 Study: Hospitals charge more than 20 times cost on some procedures to maximize revenue | Hub
Patrick Ercolano
Study: Hospitals charge more than 20 times cost on some procedures to maximize revenue CT scans, anesthesiology departments have highest average charge-to-cost ratios, Johns Hopkins researchers say By Patrick Ercolano / Published Sept 8, 2016 Image caption: Ge Bai (left) and Gerard F. Anderson Hospitals on average charged more than 20 times their own costs in 2013 in their CT scan and anesthesiology departments, according to new research from Johns Hopkins University, suggesting that hospitals strategically use markups to maximize revenue. The study, which appears in the September issue of Health Affairs, notes that many hospital executives say the prices determined by an individual hospital for billable procedures and supplies—collectively called the hospital's "chargemaster" list— are irrelevant to patients. However, the relation between chargemaster markups and hospital revenue, and the variation in markups across hospitals and departments, show that hospitals can still use markups to enhance revenues, say the study's
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/health-care-costs/articles/
 Health care costs | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Health care costs Health care costs Hospital prices for radiology services 2 to 6 times higher than Medicare rates, study shows Published Dec 13, 2021 Study compares radiology prices set by hospitals to prices set by Medicare and finds a substantial discrepancy between what patients pay Health care costs Study: Charitable care provided by hospitals doesn't measure up to their tax exemptions Published April 7, 2021 The amount of charity care hospitals provide and the favorable tax treatment they enjoy is 'badly out of sync,' researchers say Commentary Health care consolidation poses hazards to health system goals Published March 23, 2021 In 'New England Journal of Medicine,' Bloomberg Distinguished Professor calls for greater transparency in health care industry to protect doctors and patients alike / New England Journal of Medicine Health care costs Study finds high out-of-pocket costs for COVID-19 hospitalizations Published July 6, 2020 The highest burden
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/hospitals/articles/
 Hospitals | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Hospitals Patient safety Phasing out unnecessary blood testing Published Oct 20, 2017 Eliminating widespread and unnecessary tests can improve patient health, save up to $2 million in costs each year / Hopkins Medicine Global health Helping hospitals go digital Published June 22, 2017 OneMedical, founded by WSE alum and Nigeria native Adegoke Olubusi, among 15 finalists in Cisco Global Problem Solver Challenge Medical markup Study: ER patients routinely overcharged Published May 30, 2017 'Price gouging' especially prevalent among for-profit hospitals that treat minorities, uninsured patients / Hopkins Medicine Patient privacy Which hospitals are at highest risk for data breaches? Published April 5, 2017 Study finds 216 U.S. facilities violated, with one hospital corporation compromising hospital records of more than 4 million people Health care Hidden costs and 'surprise' bills Published Jan 17, 2017 Study: Medical costs for some specialists and in certain regions of U.S. are up to
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/insurance/articles/
 Insurance | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Insurance Health care An insurance moral hazard Published March 15, 2017 Many people with chronic illnesses choose needlessly costly insurance plans, driving costs up for everyone, Carey Business study finds Health care Hidden costs and 'surprise' bills Published Jan 17, 2017 Study: Medical costs for some specialists and in certain regions of U.S. are up to six times higher than what Medicare pays Health care Medical care markup Published Sept 8, 2016 Study: Hospitals charge more than 20 times cost on some procedures to maximize revenue
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/patient-experience/articles/
 Patient experience | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Patient experience Story Booth invites people to share their health care experiences Published March 21, 2019 Patients anonymously share their health stories to help others and to heal LGBTQ Sexual orientation and patient care Published Aug 1, 2018 Survey finds that only half of health care practitioners routinely ask their patients about sexual orientation Patient safety Phasing out unnecessary blood testing Published Oct 20, 2017 Eliminating widespread and unnecessary tests can improve patient health, save up to $2 million in costs each year / Hopkins Medicine Patient safety Hopkins to share surgical care protocols with 750 hospitals Published Feb 7, 2017 Armstrong Institute receives multimillion dollar grant aimed at improving patient safety, overall experience / Hopkins Medicine Patient experience Physician face time Published Jan 27, 2017 Arriving early for appointments could lead to more time face-to-face with physician, study finds / Hopkins Medicine Health care Medical care markup
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/11/08/hopkins-pioneers-of-cpr/
How Johns Hopkins doctors helped bring CPR to the mainstream | Hub
Hub staff report
How Johns Hopkins doctors helped bring CPR to the mainstream By Hub staff report / Published Nov 8, 2013 Until 1960, the only way to treat cardiac arrest was for the surgeon to open a patient's chest and, holding the heart in his or her hands, squeeze blood to vital organs. Then, a group of surgeons at Johns Hopkins forever changed the standard emergency room routine. The surgeons, who had also developed the external cardiac defibrillator, tried a new CPR technique called closed-chest cardiac massage—pumping the arrested heart without surgically opening the chest. They reported that they were able to successfully resuscitate every one of the first 20 patients they treated; 14 of those patients survived without brain damage. Soon after the Johns Hopkins doctors reported their success, closed-chest cardiac massage crept into the mainstream, becoming the go-to procedure for all cardiac arrests in U.S. hospitals. A story on The
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/15/health-insurance-costs-chronic-illness/
A health insurance moral hazard: When costly treatments raise costs for everyone | Hub
Patrick Ercolano
A health insurance moral hazard: When costly treatments raise costs for everyone Many with chronic illnesses often opt for more expensive 'curative care' over preventive care plans that could also be effective By Patrick Ercolano / Published March 15, 2017 In the health insurance market, a significant number of consumers who have chronic illnesses choose more expensive insurance plans that needlessly drive up medical costs, a new study from Johns Hopkins suggests. For the study, Jian Ni, an associate professor at JHU's Carey Business School, and his co-authors mined a broader data set than has been previously available to researchers, giving them a detailed view of consumers' health plan decisions over multiple years. If consumers develop a habit of choosing plans that more properly fit their health status, costs could be cut to customers and insurers alike. The researchers examined three years of detailed data from an unnamed health insurer
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/04/05/hospitals-at-risk-of-data-breach-patient-records/
Study: Risk of data breaches at hospitals is greater at larger facilities, teaching hospitals | Hub
Patrick Ercolano
Patient privacy Study: Risk of data breaches at hospitals is greater at larger facilities, teaching hospitals Johns Hopkins expert evaluates breaches reported from 2009 through 2016 By Patrick Ercolano / Published April 5, 2017 The risk of data breaches at U.S. hospitals is greater at larger facilities and hospitals that have a major teaching mission, according to a study led by a researcher at the Johns Hopkins Carey Business School. More than 30 hospitals that were part of the study each have experienced data breaches at least twice since 2009. At one of those facilities, the data of more than 4 million individuals was compromised. Results of the study are published online by JAMA Internal Medicine. "Data breaches negatively impact patients and cause damage to the victim hospital," says lead author Ge Bai, an assistant professor at the Carey Business School and expert in accounting and governance issues in the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/06/22/onemedical-cisco-challenge/
Johns Hopkins grad from  Nigeria wants to help hospitals in West Africa go digital | Hub
Katie Pearce
Johns Hopkins grad from Nigeria wants to help hospitals in West Africa go digital OneMedical, founded by WSE alum Adegoke Olubusi, among 15 finalists in Cisco Global Problem Solver Challenge Image caption: Adegoke Olubusi By Katie Pearce / Published June 22, 2017 Though paper-based health care is a thing of the past for many hospitals and clinics around the world, in West Africa it's still the dominant standard. Adegoke Olubusi wants to change that. "We thought, 'How can we make something simple and easy to adopt for hospitals to operate more efficiently?'" Adegoke OlubusiOneMedical founder The tech entrepreneur, a recent graduate of the Johns Hopkins Whiting School of Engineering, started OneMedical to help hospitals in West Africa go digital. His team has already begun that process in Nigeria, partnering with more than a dozen hospitals. Now OneMedical is looking at big opportunity for new funding: the Cisco Global Problem Solver
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/09/20/racial-economic-factors-surgical-pain-managment/
Review finds racial, socioeconomic factors contribute to differences in surgical care | Hub
Chanapa Tantibanchachai
Review finds racial, socioeconomic factors contribute to differences in surgical care Poor and minority patients receive less optimal pain management, are placed on enhanced recovery protocols later than wealthier, white counterparts By Chanapa Tantibanchachai / Published Sept 20, 2017 A "look back" analysis of more than 600 major colorectal surgeries using a checklist tool adds to evidence that racial and socioeconomic disparities may occur during many specific stages of surgical care, particularly in pain management. A report of the study's findings by researchers at Johns Hopkins Medicine, published last week in Diseases of the Colon & Rectum, documents the specific ways in which historically disadvantaged populations receive less optimal pain management and are placed on enhanced recovery protocols later than their wealthier and white counterparts. "This study demonstrates that process measures, which guide and document each step of care, may be critical factors in preventing differences in care, particularly those
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/10/20/how-to-eliminate-unnecessary-hospital-blood-tests/
Researchers issue blueprint for phasing out unnecessary blood tests in hospitals | Hub
Hub staff report
Researchers issue blueprint for phasing out unnecessary blood tests in hospitals Credit: Getty Images By Hub staff report / Published Oct 20, 2017 Repeated blood draws during a hospital stay can have a negative impact on a patient's health and contribute to rising health care costs. In a review article published this week in JAMA Internal Medicine, physicians at Johns Hopkins joined an international team that crafted an improvement blueprint to reduce repetitive lab testing for hospitalized patients. The paper is co-authored by residents and faculty from the High Value Practice Academic Alliance, a consortium of nearly 90 academic medical centers collaborating to improve health care quality and safety by reducing unnecessary components of practice that do not add value to patient care. Earlier this year, members of the alliance authored a paper recommending hospitals stop ordering certain tests for diagnosing heart attacks. "Excessive blood draws can deplete a patient's
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/08/14/eliminating-unnecessary-ck-mb-heart-attack-test/
Research review recommends eliminating widely ordered blood test for diagnosing heart attacks | Hub
Chanapa Tantibanchachai
Research review recommends eliminating widely ordered blood test for diagnosing heart attacks Unnecessary tests contribute to medical costs, add no significant value in detecting when heart attacks occur Credit: iStock / Getty Images By Chanapa Tantibanchachai / Published Aug 14, 2017 Researchers at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and the Mayo Clinic have compiled peer-reviewed evidence and crafted a guideline designed to help physicians and medical centers stop the use of a widely ordered blood test that adds no value in evaluating patients with suspected heart attack and contributes to high medical costs. The investigators' report on the test, published online today in JAMA Internal Medicine, points to a previous statement from the American College of Cardiology and five peer-reviewed studies concluding that creatine kinase-myocardial band—CK-MB—testing can no longer be considered an effective biomarker for detecting damaged heart muscle and can be safely eliminated from practice in this
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/10/30/bill-clinton-hopkins-bloomberg-opioid-summit/
Former President Bill Clinton visits Johns Hopkins, urges swift action on opioid epidemic | Hub
Saralyn Cruickshank
Former President Bill Clinton visits Johns Hopkins, urges swift action on opioid epidemic Health experts and others gather to discuss ongoing drug crisis, public health response Image caption: Former President Bill Clinton spoke at the Bloomberg School of Public Health about the opioid epidemic Credit: Larry Canner / Homewood Photography By Saralyn Cruickshank / Published Oct 30, 2017 Among the most urgent actions the nation can take to combat the opioid crisis in America is to erase the stigma of addiction, former President Bill Clinton said Monday at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health during a forum on the deepening epidemic. "The epidemic has grown like wildfire in small towns and rural areas with no public health infrastructure, where people don't know what to do, or can't do it if they know." Former President Bill Clinton Stigma prevents addicts and their families from seeking treatment and accessing resources,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/10/28/opioid-epidemic-report-recommendations-bloomberg-school-clinton-foundation/
Public health leaders outline steps for urgent action on opioids | Hub
Hub staff report
Public health leaders outline steps for urgent action on opioids Bloomberg School experts, in collaboration with the Clinton Foundation, issue 10 priority recommendations to address epidemic By Hub staff report / Published Oct 28, 2017 A group of experts, led by researchers at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in collaboration with the Clinton Foundation, today issued a new report with comprehensive recommendations aimed at stemming the opioid epidemic, a spiraling crisis that kills on average 90 people a day in the United States and shows few signs of reversing. "Unlike with many diseases, we have the science and the experience to end the opioid epidemic. This report contains specific recommendations for how to most effectively combat [it]." Former President Bill Clinton The report, "The Opioid Epidemic: From Evidence to Impact," maps out a blueprint for national action and details dozens of concrete, evidence-based steps for everyone working
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/09/07/prescription-opioids-long-term-use/
Study finds significant spike in long-term prescription opioid use in U.S. | Hub
Hub staff report
Study finds significant spike in long-term prescription opioid use in U.S. Long-term use of opioids is associated with greater risk for addiction, overdose By Hub staff report / Published Sept 7, 2017 Opioid prescription use in the U.S. rose significantly between 1999 and 2014, with much of that increase coming from patients who had been taking their medication for 90 days or longer, according to a new study by researchers at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Long-term use, which is associated with greater risk for addiction and overdose, increased threefold during the study's 16-year time frame. In 1999-2000, less than half of the people who were taking prescription opioids were taking them for 90 days or more. By 2013-2014, more than 70 percent were taking opioid medication on a long-term basis. The findings come as the U.S. grapples with a worsening opioid epidemic that kills nearly 100
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/08/02/most-prescription-opioids-unused/
Johns Hopkins review adds to evidence that most prescribed opioid pills go unused | Hub
Chanapa Tantibanchachai
Johns Hopkins review adds to evidence that most prescribed opioid pills go unused Researchers also find that majority of pills are not disposed of in recommended ways Credit: smartstock By Chanapa Tantibanchachai / Published Aug 2, 2017 A substantial majority of patients prescribed opioids after surgery fail to use their entire prescription, and more than 90 percent of them fail to dispose of leftover pills in the recommended ways, a team of researchers from Johns Hopkins University found in a recent review of half a dozen published studies. Opioid abuse has been rising in the U.S., with some public health officials referring to the rate of opioid overdoses and deaths as an epidemic. The review highlights the need for personalizing pain management after surgeries so that physicians can avoid overprescribing opioids and patients can avoid the risks of improperly storing opioid medications in the home. "Physicians write a lot of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/10/26/opioid-epidemic-forum-johns-hopkins-bill-clinton/
Bill Clinton to visit Johns Hopkins for discussion of U.S. opioid epidemic | Hub
Hub staff report
Bill Clinton to visit Johns Hopkins for discussion of U.S. opioid epidemic Bloomberg School to host experts Oct. 30 for forum on how to translate evidence to action and combat opioid crisis By Hub staff report / Published Oct 26, 2017 Former President Bill Clinton will be among the participants Monday in a forum focused on high-impact solutions to the nation's opioid epidemic. Image caption: Former President Bill Clinton The event, at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in East Baltimore, will be co-hosted by the Clinton Foundation's Health Matters Initiative and the Bloomberg School. Registration for the event is full, but a live web broadcast will be available beginning at 10 a.m. Monday. The U.S. is in the midst of a deepening opioid crisis. More than 33,000 people—an average of 91 people per day—died from opioid overdoses in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/09/25/pain-symposium-new-approaches-to-opioid-epidemic/
Experts convene at Johns Hopkins to consider new ways of addressing opioid epidemic | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Experts convene at Johns Hopkins to consider new ways of addressing opioid epidemic By Saralyn Lyons / Published Sept 25, 2017 Peter Pronovost is the doctor who led Johns Hopkins to redefine the way the hospital prevents catheter infections. The approach was so successful that it has been implemented in hospitals across the country and has helped reduce the rates of these deadly infections by 80 percent. Now Pronovost has some big ideas about preventing opioid abuse in the U.S. Image caption: Peter Pronovost (left) and Josh Sharfstein "We have a really, really big problem before us," he said during his morning keynote address at the Johns Hopkins Pain Symposium, which was held today at The Johns Hopkins Hospital. Pronovost, who leads the Armstrong Institute for Patient Safety and Quality, explained the challenge faced by health professionals and policymakers. In the U.S., about 1,000 people a day are treated in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/01/22/hopkins-breast-cancer-center/
New Johns Hopkins center aims to unlock genetic mysteries of breast cancer | Hub
Katie Pearce
New Johns Hopkins center aims to unlock genetic mysteries of breast cancer With National Cancer Institute grant, researchers merge biology with applied mathematics Image caption: 3-D organoid cultured in Andrew Ewald's lab Credit: Johns Hopkins Medicine By Katie Pearce / Published Jan 22, 2018 The images were striking—cells clustering into patterns that, to biomedical engineer Joel Bader, looked like starfish and fruits and inkblots. It was a Johns Hopkins colleague, cell biologist Andrew Ewald, who shared these models with Bader several years ago. The images revealed variations in the patterns of breast tissue grown in Ewald's lab—3-D cultures, or "organoids," derived from the cells of actual cancer patients. Image caption: Joel Bader (left) and Andrew Ewald Ewald was looking into the mutations these cells relied upon to spread breast cancer, aiming to pinpoint specific genetic pathways. When Bader came on board, with his background in computational biology, he suggested a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/02/cancer-cells-metastasis-groups/
Cancer cells travel in groups to forge metastases with greater chance of survival, study suggests | Hub
Hub staff report
Cancer cells travel in groups to forge metastases with greater chance of survival, study suggests Traveling cells also may be intrinsically resistant to chemotherapy, Johns Hopkins researchers find By Hub staff report / Published Feb 2, 2016 Apparently there's safety in numbers, even for cancer cells. New research from Johns Hopkins suggests that cancer cells rarely form metastatic tumors on their own, preferring to travel in groups to increase their collective chance of survival. Image caption: A metastasis now growing in lung tissue (blue) that originated from at least two cells (red and green) from a multicolored tumor in the mammary gland of a mouse. Image credit: Courtesy of Breanna Moore, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center In a report on the study published online in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the researchers say they also found that traveling cells differ from those multiplying within a primary tumor,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/01/29/breast-cancer-treatment-explained/
How does breast cancer spread? Johns Hopkins cell biologist explains | Hub
Hub staff report
How does breast cancer spread? Johns Hopkins cell biologist explains Andy Ewald discusses recent discovery of cell type linked to metastasis By Hub staff report / Published Jan 29, 2014 Here's something pretty wonderful we just stumbled upon. In this video, Johns Hopkins cell biologist Andy Ewald explains how breast cancer spreads. Using Play-Doh. And colored beads. It's the first installment in an occasional Johns Hopkins Medicine video series called "Science: Out of the Box," in which complex science is explained in simple, easy-to-understand terms. With children's modeling clay, apparently. Ewald and his team at the Center for Cell Dynamics have recently pinpointed a specific cell type that helps different breast tumors metastatize. This is a big deal, Ewald explains, because if scientists can turn off the gene linked to that cell type—called leader cells—then they can stop the cancer from spreading. And if they can stop it from spreading,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/30/close-up-look-at-metastasis/
Device invented at Johns Hopkins provides up-close look at cancer on the move | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Device invented at Johns Hopkins provides up-close look at cancer on the move Microscopic view of metastasis could give insight about how to keep cancer in check Image caption: Andrew Wong, left, a materials science and engineering doctoral student, developed the metastasis research device with his faculty adviser, Peter Searson. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Phil Sneiderman / Published Oct 30, 2014 Johns Hopkins engineers have invented a lab device to give cancer researchers an unprecedented microscopic look at metastasis, the complex way that tumor cells spread through the body, causing more than 90 percent of cancer-related deaths. By shedding light on precisely how tumor cells travel, the device could uncover new ways to keep cancer in check. The inventors, from the university's Whiting School of Engineering and its Institute for NanoBioTechnology, published details and images from their new system recently in the journal Cancer Research. Their
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/02/20/cost-of-cancer-care-exceeds-varies-widely/
Cost of cancer care varies widely, significantly exceeds what Medicare will pay | Hub
Archana Nilaweera
Cost of cancer care varies widely, significantly exceeds what Medicare will pay Johns Hopkins team reviews Medicare billing records for 3,428 hospitals from all 50 states By Archana Nilaweera / Published Feb 20, 2018 An analysis of recent Medicare billing records for more than 3,000 hospitals across the United States shows that charges for outpatient oncology services such as chemo infusion and radiation treatment vary widely and exceed what Medicare will pay by twofold to sixfold. A report of the findings, published in the American Journal of Managed Care on Feb. 17, emphasizes the need for fair and transparent pricing of cancer-related medical services to protect patients from unpredictable financial burdens at a time when they are most vulnerable, according to researchers who conducted the analysis. "Cancer patients shouldn't be put into household bankruptcy just because a hospital inflates a bill well above what an insurance company would pay for
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/03/20/limiting-medical-residents-shifts/
Study: Limiting shifts for medical trainees improves satisfaction without affecting educational outcomes | Hub
Marin Hedin
Study: Limiting shifts for medical trainees improves satisfaction without affecting educational outcomes Residents surveyed cite preference for limited-hour programs, but program directors report high levels of dissatisfaction with this approach compared to flexible-hour programs Credit: Getty Images By Marin Hedin / Published March 20, 2018 Limiting first-year medical residents to 16-hour work shifts, compared to "flexing" them to allow for some longer shifts, generally makes residents more satisfied with their training and work-life balance, and makes their training directors more dissatisfied with curtailed educational opportunities, a new study from the New England Journal of Medicine has found. For the study, investigators from the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania surveyed and tracked the activities of thousands of first-year residents in 63 internal medicine training programs nationwide. The study—which is part of a five-year effort funded by the National Heart, Lung
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/03/19/teaching-new-doctors-to-treat-pain/
Teaching medical students how to treat pain | Hub
Karen Nitkin
Credit: Keith Weller Opioid crisis Teaching medical students how to treat pain Required course for next generation of physicians highlights the hazards of prescribing opioids By Karen Nitkin / Published March 19, 2018 This article was originally published by Dome, a Johns Hopkins Medicine publication that debuted in its new, online-only format on March 1 Pain is complicated, Jennifer Haythornthwaite tells her first-year medical students. "No two people experience pain the same way," she says. "We can give hundreds of people the same stimulus and each person's going to have a different response." Haythornthwaite teaches the Pain Care Medicine course that's required for all first-year Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine students. During four days of instruction, students hear from Johns Hopkins patients, surgeons, pharmacists, physical therapists, and nurses. Haythornthwaite, a psychologist, discusses psychosocial issues such as poor sleep and depression, which can result from pain and also make pain
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/04/17/super-gel-blood-clotting/
A simple way to stop the bleeding | Hub
Sukanya Charuchandra
Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Undergraduate research A simple way to stop the bleeding Engineering students devise blood-clotting 'super gel' that could make oft-repeated procedures more efficient and economical By Sukanya Charuchandra / Published April 17, 2018 Stemming the flow of blood to starve a tumor or stop hemorrhage can be an expensive, repetitive task for doctors, requiring a variety of approaches and materials for different patients and different sized blood vessels. Often the interventional radiologists who perform these important procedures must try several times in order to successfully stop the bleeding. A team of students from Johns Hopkins University's Department of Materials Science and Engineering has developed a "super gel" that has the potential to eventually make this process easier, less expensive, and more efficient. The gel can pass through a catheter—the delivery vehicle of choice—but is hyper-absorbent enough to then swell with blood, creating a clot
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/09/15/dna-causes-hydrogel-to-change-shape-soft-robots/
A new way to create 'soft robots'—DNA triggers that cause hydrogels to change shape | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
A new way to create 'soft robots'—DNA triggers that cause hydrogels to change shape Tactic could produce 'smart' medical devices that don't rely on cumbersome wires, batteries, tethers Image caption: Inside the lab with David Gracias, Vicky Nguyen, and Rebecca Schulman Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Phil Sneiderman / Published Sept 15, 2017 Biochemical engineers at Johns Hopkins University used sequences of DNA molecules to cause water-based gels to change shape, demonstrating a new tactic to produce soft robots and "smart" medical devices that don't rely on cumbersome wires, batteries, or tethers. The research, supervised by three faculty members in the university's Whiting School of Engineering, is detailed online today in the journal Science. Image caption: The team members reported that their process used specific DNA sequences called "hairpins" to cause a centimeter-sized hydrogel sample to swell to 100 times its original volume. The reaction was then
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/01/05/dna-nanotubes-build-bridge-between-molecules/
Captured on video: DNA nanotubes build a bridge between two molecular posts | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Captured on video: DNA nanotubes build a bridge between two molecular posts Research may lead to new lines of direct communication with living cells Image caption: Assistant Professor Rebecca Schulman (left) and postdoctoral fellow Abdul Mohammed use a single-molecule fluorescence microscope to track the nanotube bridge formation process. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Phil Sneiderman / Published Jan 5, 2017 In a microscopic feat that resembled a high-wire circus act, Johns Hopkins researchers have coaxed DNA nanotubes to assemble themselves into bridge-like structures arched between two molecular landmarks on the surface of a lab dish and also captured examples of this unusual nanoscale performance on video. Video credit: Nature Nanotechnology, 2016, Abdul M. Mohammed, et. al. This self-assembling bridge process, which may someday be used to connect electronic medical devices to living cells, was reported by the team recently in the journal Nature Nanotechnology. To describe this
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/11/06/artificial-hydrogels-formed-in-living-cells-als-lou-gehrigs-disease/
Researchers report first-ever protein hydrogels made in living cells | Hub
Shawna Williams
Researchers report first-ever protein hydrogels made in living cells Artificial formation of these difficult-to-study cell structures could advance the understanding of how they contribute to diseases such as ALS By Shawna Williams / Published Nov 6, 2017 Johns Hopkins cell biologists report what they believe is the first-ever creation of tiny, gelatin-like clumps called hydrogels inside living cells. The ability to create hydrogels on demand, they say, could advance the effort to study elusive cell structures that form in nature under certain conditions—and to uncover how these structures contribute to human diseases. Too many or too few natural hydrogels could affect a cell's ability to function, and may be linked to neurodegenerative diseases such as Lou Gehrig's disease. "The exciting part of this work is not just that we made hydrogels, but that we're now equipped with this powerful technique that lets us ask fundamental and very challenging questions about
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/23/als-dementia-research/
Jammed cellular highways caused by gene mutations linked to ALS, dementia | Hub
Hub staff report
Jammed cellular highways caused by gene mutations linked to ALS, dementia Johns Hopkins researchers successfully clear up clogs in lab study By Hub staff report / Published Sept 23, 2015 Researchers at Johns Hopkins University say they have discovered how a common gene mutation causes the brain damage associated with dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis—better known as ALS, or Lou Gehrig's disease—and are experimenting with a molecular therapy to address the problem. Image caption: Neurons (red) created from ALS patients bearing the C9orf72 mutatio show clumps of the RanGAP protein (yellow) in their nuclei (white). The nuclei of other cells are in blue. Image credit: Jeffrey Rothstein laboratory, Johns Hopkins Medicine The research shows that the most common known risk factor for ALS and frontotemporal dementia, or FTD—a gene mutation known as C9orf72—causes cellular highways to jam, impairing brain functions. However, in tests with human and fly cells, the scientists
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/20/als-ice-bucket-challenge-research/
Ice Bucket Challenge helped make ALS breakthrough possible, researchers say | Hub
Hub staff report
Ice Bucket Challenge helped make ALS breakthrough possible, researchers say Johns Hopkins scientists publish explanation for protein clumps in brains of patients with Lou Gehrig's disease Video: Johns Hopkins Medicine By Hub staff report / Published Aug 20, 2015 Researchers at Johns Hopkins are crediting the viral ALS Ice Bucket Challenge with helping to raise the funds needed for an important scientific step forward in our understanding of the deadly disease. In a study described earlier this month in the journal Science, the researchers offered an explanation for the protein clumps found inside the brain or nerve cells of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, more commonly known as ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease, a progressive neuromuscular disease with no known cure. Philip Wong, a professor of pathology at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and the study's lead author, told The Washington Post that the more than $220 million in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/21/als-ice-bucket-challenge/
Packard Center enjoys spillover benefits of #ALSIceBucketChallenge craze | Hub
Greg Rienzi
Packard Center enjoys spillover benefits of #ALSIceBucketChallenge craze Johns Hopkins ALS research center has seen 800% increase in donations By Greg Rienzi / Published Aug 21, 2014 ALS researcher Jeff Rothstein wants people to keep throwing cold water. In the past few weeks, The Ice Bucket Challenge has cycloned through social media circles, creating a global phenomenon that has helped raise awareness and money on an unprecedented level for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease. Not since the Titanic sank has icy water created such worldwide buzz. As of Aug. 21, the national ALS Association had received $41.8 million in donations compared to $2.1 million during the same time period (July 29 to Aug. 21) a year ago, a near twentyfold increase. A sizable portion of this money has come from more than 739,000 new donors. The Robert Packard Center for ALS Research at Johns
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/04/23/penis-transplant-surgery-johns-hopkins/
Johns Hopkins surgeons perform world's first total penis and scrotum transplant | Hub
Archana Nilaweera
Johns Hopkins surgeons perform world's first total penis and scrotum transplant Recipient is a veteran who sustained injuries while serving in Afghanistan By Archana Nilaweera / Published April 23, 2018 Media Inquiries NameArchana Nilaweera Emailanilawe1@jhmi.edu Office phone410-502-9468 NameHelen Jones Emailhjones49@jhmi.edu Office phone410-502-9422 Penile Transplant Diagram Many soldiers returning from combat bear visible scars, or even lost limbs, caused by blasts from improvised explosive devices, or IEDs. Some servicemen also return with debilitating hidden injuries—the loss of all or part of their genitals. "We are hopeful that this transplant will help restore near-normal urinary and sexual functions for this young man." W.P. Andrew LeeDirector, plastic and reconstructive surgery The Johns Hopkins reconstructive surgery team that performed the country's first bilateral arm transplant in a wounded warrior has now successfully performed the first total penis and scrotum transplant in the world, Johns Hopkins Medicine announced today. A team of nine plastic surgeons
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/01/29/double-arm-transplant/
Johns Hopkins surgeons perform double arm transplant  | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins surgeons perform double arm transplant By Hub staff report / Published Jan 29, 2013 The Washington Post reported on Monday that a team of surgeons from Johns Hopkins Hospital had performed a rare double arm transplant on a former soldier. Brendan Marrocco, 26, lost all four of his limbs in an explosion three years ago, when he was serving in Iraq. Last month, a team of transplant experts, led by W.P. Andrew Lee, professor and chairman of Johns Hopkins' Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, performed the multihour operation. It was only the seventh successful double arm transplant performed in the United States. Lee said results in such cases have been good, although transplanted arms are never going to have 100 percent of the function of the limbs they replace. But he said patients have learned to tie shoes, use chopsticks, and put their hair in ponytails. Read
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/08/jhu-surgeons-plan-penis-transplant/
Johns Hopkins surgeons plan first U.S. penis transplant | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins surgeons plan first U.S. penis transplant Doctors aim to help wounded servicemen regain sexual function By Hub staff report / Published Dec 8, 2015 Doctors at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine are planning the first penis transplant in the United States, and the operation could take place within a few months, the New York Times reports. The transplant procedure would allow military servicemen who have suffered injuries to their genitals, called genitourinary injuries, to regain function. The surgeons plan to perform 60 operations and closely monitor the results to judge whether the surgery can become a standard treatment. "These genitourinary injuries are not things we hear about or read about very often," W.P. Andrew Lee, chairman of plastic and reconstructive surgery at the School of Medicine, told the Times. "I think one would agree it is as devastating as anything that our wounded warriors suffer, for
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/05/09/many-airbnb-venues-lack-safety-features/
Many Airbnb venues lack basic safety protections, study finds | Hub
Andrea Maruniak
Many Airbnb venues lack basic safety protections, study finds Nationally, 42% of Airbnb rentals are equipped with fire extinguishers, 56% contain carbon monoxide detectors Image caption: A lack of national safety standards for peer-to-peer hospitality services like Airbnb leaves room for ambiguity about safety requirements, researchers say Credit: Pixabay By Andrea Maruniak / Published May 9, 2018 Media Inquiries NameAndrea Maruniak Emailamaruniak@jhu.edu Office phone410-502-3373 NameBarbara Benham Emailbbenham1@jhu.edu Office phone(410) 614-6029 Many Airbnb venues in the United States fail to provide the critical carbon monoxide and fire safety protections that are legally required of hotels and motels, suggests new research from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. The analysis, published Monday in the journal Injury Prevention, revealed that while the majority of rental properties—80 percent—were said to contain smoke detectors, only 56 percent were reportedly equipped with carbon monoxide detectors. Even fewer—42 percent of venues—were said to have fire
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/05/22/students-receive-fulbright-scholarships/
16 Johns Hopkins students receive Fulbright grants | Hub
Jill Rosen
16 Johns Hopkins students receive Fulbright grants Fellowships allow recipients to study, teach, and conduct research abroad By Jill Rosen / Published May 22, 2018 Media Inquiries NameJill Rosen Emailjrosen@jhu.edu Office phone443-997-9906 Cell phone443-547-8805 Sixteen Johns Hopkins University students and recent graduates have been awarded Fulbright grants, earning the chance to travel abroad to study, teach, and conduct research. Named for the late Sen. J. William Fulbright, who sponsored legislation creating the prestigious scholarship, the Fulbright Scholar Program is the country's largest educational exchange program, offering opportunities for students and young professionals to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and school teaching worldwide. Approximately 8,000 grants are awarded each year, and the program operates in more than 155 countries. With the Fulbright Study/Research grant, a student designs a proposal for a specific country. The program aims to facilitate cultural exchange and promote mutual understanding by supporting study or
https://hub.jhu.edu/2018/05/23/undergrad-engineers-solve-medical-problems/
Medicine's problem-solvers | Hub
David Glenn
Image caption: Hien Nguyen, assistant professor of surgery and biomedical engineering, walks through a surgical procedure with a group of undergraduate Design Team leaders in an operating room at Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center Credit: Keith Weller Biomedical engineering Medicine's problem-solvers Johns Hopkins' biomedical engineering program empowers undergrads to develop real-world solutions for improving patient care By David Glenn / Published May 23, 2018 When Edward Ahn and Rajiv Iyer, neurosurgeons at the Johns Hopkins Hospital, have a problem they'd like to solve—like dozens of clinicians before them—they place their faith in the undergraduate students in the Johns Hopkins Department of Biomedical Engineering's Design Team courses. Ahn, Iyer, and their colleagues have been experimenting with a new surgical technique for craniosynostosis—a rare condition in which the thin plates of an infant's skull fuse prematurely, resulting in head malformations and potential problems with brain development. To fix the condition, surgeons open
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/10/12/biomedical-engineering-hires-new-faculty/
Engineering the future of medicine: Johns Hopkins expert details vision for new era of biomedical engineering | Hub
Mary Beth Regan and Kristen Swaney
Engineering the future of medicine: Johns Hopkins expert details vision for new era of biomedical engineering Michael Miller outlines plan to hire 10 new BME faculty members in key disciplines in coming months Video: Johns Hopkins Biomedical Engineering By Mary Beth Regan and Kristen Swaney / Published Oct 12, 2017 Michael I. Miller, director of the Johns Hopkins Department of Biomedical Engineering, has a plan for a new era of biomedical science discovery to respond to the challenges of the 21st century. He unveiled this plan Wednesday during the 2017 Biomedical Engineering Society Annual Meeting in Phoenix, Arizona. Image caption: Michael I. Miller "The past century has been the Age of Physics, followed by the Information Age, where we saw vast engineering contributions to the mapping and control of our external world, from the rise of operational amplifiers and computer disks to GPS and the prospect of self-driving cars," Miller
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/14/us-news-grad-program-rankings-hopkins/
 'U.S. News' again ranks several Johns Hopkins graduate programs among nation's best | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
'U.S. News' again ranks several Johns Hopkins graduate programs among nation's best Engineering, medicine, nursing receive high marks in publication's annual rankings Credit: Noah Scialom By Arthur Hirsch / Published March 14, 2017 Johns Hopkins University graduate programs in nursing, education, medicine, and biomedical engineering are again considered among the best in the country, according to the newest U.S. News & World Report rankings of "Best Graduate Schools" for 2018. Released on Tuesday, the list puts JHU's biomedical engineering program—run jointly by the Whiting School of Engineering and the School of Medicine—in the No. 1 spot it has long held, though it shares the top honor this year with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "What makes our program in biomedical engineering unique—and one of its greatest strengths—is that it resides equally in the School of Engineering and the School of Medicine," said Ed Schlesinger, dean of the Whiting School. "Our
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/13/us-news-best-college-rankings-hopkins-2016/
Johns Hopkins again among top 10 in annual 'U.S. News' best college rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins again among top 10 in annual 'U.S. News' best college rankings JHU also ranks among best values, top picks in survey of high school guidance counselors Credit: Noah Scialom By Hub staff report / Published Sept 13, 2016 Johns Hopkins University remained 10th among national universities in the annual U.S. News & World Report rankings of the nation's best colleges and universities, which were released Tuesday. The university also tied for fifth in a U.S. News survey of high school guidance counselors, remained among the top 20 universities considered by the publication to be the best values for students, and retained its place among U.S. News' top 15 undergraduate engineering programs at a doctoral institution. JHU's repeat top 10 recognition by U.S. News follows its inclusion among the top 20 in several prominent global university rankings that focus on research and overall academic excellence. This year, Johns Hopkins
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/17/hopkins-shanghai-ranking/
 Johns Hopkins climbs in annual Shanghai Ranking of top world universities | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins climbs in annual Shanghai Ranking of top world universities JHU listed 16th in 2015 Academic Ranking of World Universities Credit: Noah Scialom By Hub staff report / Published Aug 17, 2015 Johns Hopkins University has again been recognized as one of the best universities in the world in an annual list compiled by the Center for World-Class Universities at Shanghai Jiao Tong University. Hopkins ranks 16th in the world and 14th among U.S. universities in the latest Academic Ranking of World Universities, also known as the Shanghai Ranking, which were released Saturday. The rankings, first published in 2003, include the top 500 universities out of more than 1,200 considered for inclusion. Johns Hopkins, which was ranked 17th a year ago, also came in fourth in the center's broad subject field ranking for Clinical Medicine and Pharmacy. Harvard retained the top overall spot for the 13th consecutive year, with
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/30/times-higher-education-world-rankings/
Johns Hopkins climbs to 11th in annual World University Rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins climbs to 11th in annual World University Rankings By Hub staff report / Published Sept 30, 2015 Johns Hopkins University gained four spots in the latest London Times Higher Education World University Rankings, which were released today, moving up to 11th out of 800 universities. JHU, which also ranked seventh among U.S. universities on the list, received the highest possible score of 100 in the industry income category, a measurement of the research income that a school generates relative to the size of its academic staff. Industry income is one of five key categories of criteria on which THE's rankings are based, along with teaching (including student-faculty ratios), research (by faculty members of the school), citations (the influence of the school's research on other advances in the field), and international outlook. The annual Times Higher Education list, in its 12th year, is among the world's most influential rankings
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/01/times-high-education-world-university-rankings
 Johns Hopkins remains 15th out of 400 schools in World University Rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins remains 15th out of 400 schools in World University Rankings JHU also 7th in Clinical, Preclinical, and Health; 9th in Life Sciences Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Oct 1, 2014 For the second year in a row, Johns Hopkins University ranks 15th in the world among 400 research universities, according to a survey released today by London's Times Higher Education. Johns Hopkins also achieved the top possible score of 100 in THE's industry income category, which aims to capture a university's ability to help industry with innovations, inventions, and consultancy by looking at how much research income an institution earns relative to the size of its academic staff. Industry income is one of five components of the overall score on which the rankings are based. THE's World University Rankings are based on 13 performance indicators in five key areas: teaching,
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/09/09/us-news-rankings
 Johns Hopkins remains among top 12 in 'U.S. News' rankings of best colleges | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins remains among top 12 in 'U.S. News' rankings of best colleges JHU also recognized for socio-economic diversity, value, undergraduate research; engineering rises to 15th nationally Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Sept 9, 2014 The Johns Hopkins University remains 12th in the newest U.S. News & World Report "best colleges" rankings, maintaining for a second year its highest placement in the past 15 editions of the widely read college guide. Last September, the university was tied for 12th among national universities. In the list released Tuesday, Johns Hopkins stands alone in that spot. "Fundamentally, the best universities comprise exceptional students, extraordinary scholars and teachers, and an environment that allows them to do their best work together," said Ronald J. Daniels, president of the university. "At Johns Hopkins, we work every day to foster an ever more supportive and dynamic environment for
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/09/10/us-news-annual-rankings
 Johns Hopkins moves up to 12th in U.S. News rankings of best colleges | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins moves up to 12th in U.S. News rankings of best colleges JHU also recognized for socio-economic diversity, value, undergraduate research; biomedical engineering program again ranks No. 1 nationally By Hub staff report / Published Sept 10, 2013 The Johns Hopkins University is tied for 12th in the newest U.S. News & World Report "best colleges" rankings, up a notch from last year and the university's highest slot in 14 years. Johns Hopkins was also rated seventh in a ranking by high school guidance counselors, tied with four other schools, and tied for eighth in a "peer assessment" by university presidents, provosts and deans. Both lists are components of the overall "best colleges" rankings. The new ranking reflects an upward trend for Johns Hopkins, which ranked 15th among national universities in the fall of 2008 and since then has been listed 14th, tied for 13th, 13th alone (twice) and
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/09/us-news-college-rankings-2015
Johns Hopkins moves up to No. 10 in annual 'U.S. News' college rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins moves up to No. 10 in annual 'U.S. News' college rankings Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Sept 9, 2015 Johns Hopkins University has climbed to 10th in the newest U.S. News & World Report "Best Colleges Rankings," released today. That's up from 12th last year and 16th as recently as 2006. The university also moved up from seventh to third in this year's U.S. News survey of high school guidance counselors. The university has worked comprehensively over the past decade to enhance and strengthen the undergraduate experience. It has expanded research opportunities, built and renovated state-of-the-art academic buildings, and introduced new co-curricular offerings to help develop every student not only as a scholar but also as a contributing member of society. Those initiatives are tied together by improved financial aid to ensure that a family's economic circumstances do not keep
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/05/02/blc-leed-gold-recognition
 Brody Learning Commons recognized for green construction, operations | Hub
Hub staff report
Brody Learning Commons recognized for green construction, operations Building receives gold certification from U.S. Green Building Council Image caption: The Keyser Quadrangle entrance to the Brody Learning Commons leads visitors directly into the 75-seat Daily Grind cafe, which is equipped with ample plugs for laptops and electronics. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published May 2, 2013 The Brody Learning Commons at Johns Hopkins University has been recognized for its green construction and operations with a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold certification from the U.S. Green Building Council, making it the first new construction on the Homewood campus to earn the distinction. The BLC received its LEED Gold certification based on a number of features, including: Increasing the use of natural day lighting to reduce energy consumption Using energy-efficient lighting and in teaching and study rooms light on sensors Establishing sustainable
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/30/ta-nehisi-coates-race-forum
 In wake of Baltimore unrest, Ta-Nehisi Coates steers conversation to history of racial inequality, violence | Hub
Katie Pearce
In wake of Baltimore unrest, Ta-Nehisi Coates steers conversation to history of racial inequality, violence Acclaimed writer speaks at inaugural 'JHU Forum on Race in America' Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published April 30, 2015 The inaugural JHU Forum on Race in America featuring acclaimed writer and Baltimore native Ta-Nehisi Coates was planned months ago, organizers said, to launch a conversation at Johns Hopkins University about race and racism in our community and in our country. Image caption: Ta-Nehisi Coates Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Just days before the event, Baltimore erupted into riots following the funeral of Freddie Gray, the unrest beginning in the same neighborhood where Coates grew up. His mother, Coates wrote in The Atlantic earlier this week, was raised in the same West Baltimore housing project in which Gray was taken into police custody. With concerns about
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/29/community-impact-fifth-anniversary
 Prosecutor Marilyn Mosby to speak to JHU students taking part in Baltimore internships program | Hub
Katie Pearce
Prosecutor Marilyn Mosby to speak to JHU students taking part in Baltimore internships program Community Impact Internships Program marks its fifth year this summer Image caption: Fifty Johns Hopkins students are working with Baltimore nonprofits and government agencies this summer as part of the Community Impact Internships Program, which is in its fifth year. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published June 29, 2015 The Community Impact Internships Program at Johns Hopkins University has traditionally pulled in Baltimore heavyweights as speakers. Past guests have included writers (and JHU graduates) Wes Moore and D. Watkins, who carved out their reputations on Baltimore-focused work. This summer, the program has secured Baltimore State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby, the young prosecutor who has garnered national attention for bringing charges against six police officers involved in Freddie Gray's arrest. Mosby will speak at the program's midpoint event Tuesday evening on JHU's
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/19/computational-medicine-minor
 Johns Hopkins launches nation's first undergraduate minor in computational medicine | Hub
Mary Beth Regan
Johns Hopkins launches nation's first undergraduate minor in computational medicine Field focuses on quantitative approaches to understanding, diagnosing, and treating disease By Mary Beth Regan / Published Aug 19, 2015 The Johns Hopkins Institute for Computational Medicine, acclaimed worldwide for its groundbreaking research, has launched the nation's first undergraduate minor in the emerging field of computational medicine. The minor course of study exposes students to the fundamentals of computational medicine—a discipline devoted to the development of quantitative approaches to understanding the mechanisms, diagnosis, and treatment of human disease. A core faculty of 19 researchers, who hold primary and joint appointments in multiple departments and schools, will act as advisors to students. Courses will guide students through recent advances in modeling and computing technologies that have opened the door to new possibilities for identifying, analyzing, and treating diseases. The program, which is open to any Johns Hopkins undergraduate, is expected to
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/20/hearing-their-voices-research
 Hearing their voices: Johns Hopkins researchers tune in to what young Baltimore residents have to say | Hub
Katie Pearce
Hearing their voices: Johns Hopkins researchers tune in to what young Baltimore residents have to say Project gives city youth a chance to share their perspectives in wake of Freddie Gray's death and the resulting protests, unrest Image caption: Members of a Johns Hopkins research team help out at a food outreach event at Gethsemane Baptist Church in West Baltimore's Penn North neighborhood in July. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Aug 20, 2015 The conversation starts with a knock on the door, or a greeting at a public spot like a basketball court. After introductions, the first line of questioning is, "What's your life story?" Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University What the "Hearing Their Voices" project is finding is that people want to talk. The free-ranging conversations researchers are having with young residents around Baltimore usually last about two hours.
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/11/21cc-rapid-research-baltimore
 Johns Hopkins' 21st Century Cities Initiative deploys researchers in wake of Baltimore unrest | Hub
Katie Pearce
Johns Hopkins' 21st Century Cities Initiative deploys researchers in wake of Baltimore unrest Faculty members launch eight projects investigating city's dynamics Image caption: In one of several research projects designed in response to the recent unrest in Baltimore, researchers will look at abandoned housing "to figure out how to stem the blight and create neighborhood conditions more conducive to well-being and health," said Kathryn Edin, director of JHU's 21st Century Cities Initiative. Credit: istock By Katie Pearce / Published May 11, 2015 In the thick of Baltimore's chaos two weeks ago, a group of Johns Hopkins University faculty members started emailing one another. "We looked around and said, 'Where's the Hopkins response to this?'" says Stephen Morgan, a professor of sociology and education. From that came a meeting of a "truly cross-campus set of people," says Morgan, brainstorming research projects that could help "understand what was going on, why it
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/01/26/bloomberg-gift
 Michael R. Bloomberg commits $350 million to Johns Hopkins for transformational academic initiative  | Hub
Hub staff report
Michael R. Bloomberg commits $350 million to Johns Hopkins for transformational academic initiative New York Mayor believed first to give lifetime $1 billion to one U.S. higher education institution By Hub staff report / Published Jan 26, 2013 Philanthropist and New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has committed $350 million to Johns Hopkins University, anchoring a major initiative aimed at bringing significant innovation to U.S. higher education. The total commitment – the largest ever to the university – lifts Bloomberg's lifetime giving to Johns Hopkins beyond $1 billion. The majority of the new gift, $250 million out of $350 million, will be part of a larger effort to raise $1 billion to facilitate cross-disciplinary work across the university to galvanize people, resources, research and educational opportunities around a set of complex global challenges. Initially, the funds will be used to support the appointment of faculty in the areas of
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/27/centre-theater-opening-film-media-studies
 Lights, camera, action: Johns Hopkins film program expands to new space | Hub
Bret McCabe
Lights, camera, action: Johns Hopkins film program expands to new space JHU/MICA Film Center in Baltimore's Station North Arts and Entertainment District houses state-of-the-art production facilities By Bret McCabe / Published Aug 27, 2015 When the fall semester begins today, students taking classes in the Johns Hopkins Program in Film and Media Studies will be the first to make use of the university's brand new, state-of-the-art production facilities housed in the historic Centre Theatre. The JHU/MICA Film Center, part of the university's growing presence in Baltimore's Station North Arts and Entertainment District, greatly expands the resources offered by the program and its partnership with MICA's Film and Video program. JHU's Film and Media Studies Program—which is part of the Krieger School of Arts & Sciences but attracts students from the Johns Hopkins Peabody Institute who are interested in sound, audio, and film score courses—will also maintain a presence on the
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/07/hopkins-master-of-arts-in-film-and-media
 Johns Hopkins adds master's program in Film and Media | Hub
Mary Zajac
Johns Hopkins adds master's program in Film and Media Program will focus on business of film, writing for film and television, and sound production By Mary Zajac / Published July 7, 2015 In response to the film industry's growing need for seasoned screenwriters, forward-looking film executives, and skilled sound engineers, Johns Hopkins has launched a Master of Arts in Film and Media program, which will focus on the business of film, writing for film and television, and sound production. All courses will be held in the new film studio and recording center in Baltimore's Station North Arts and Entertainment District. The program will be offered by Johns Hopkins Advanced Academic Programs, a division of the university's Krieger School of Arts and Sciences. "Achieving a career in today's entertainment and media industry takes a special talent, as well as an insider's understanding of the business practices needed to succeed," says Roberto
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/01/thomas-dolby-johns-hopkins
 Digital music pioneer, 1980s pop icon Thomas Dolby to join Hopkins faculty | Hub
Jill Rosen
Digital music pioneer, 1980s pop icon Thomas Dolby to join Hopkins faculty Dolby is best known for 1982 synthpop hit 'She Blinded Me With Science' Video: Len Turner and David Schmelick By Jill Rosen / Published March 1, 2014 Thomas Dolby, creator of the memorable 1980s synthpop anthem "She Blinded Me With Science," will join Johns Hopkins University's faculty as the first Homewood Professor of the Arts. Image caption: Thomas Dolby tours Baltimore's Parkway Theatre, which is currently being renovated. Image credit: Larry Canner Since the debut of his hit single in 1982—which peaked at No. 5 on the U.S. Billboard chart—Dolby, now 55, has been at the forefront of digital music, pioneering ways to merge the music with film, technology, and science. At Johns Hopkins, starting in the fall, he will be teaching "Sound on Film," a collaboration between Homewood's Film and Media Studies program and Peabody's Recording Arts
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/01/cardin-discussion-iran-nuclear-deal
 Sen. Cardin visits Johns Hopkins to discuss Iran nuclear deal with students | Hub
Hub staff report
Sen. Cardin visits Johns Hopkins to discuss Iran nuclear deal with students Contentious agreement set for up-or-down vote in Congress this month Image caption: U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin discussed the Iran nuclear deal with a group of Johns Hopkins students at Hodson Hall. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Sept 1, 2015 U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin visited Johns Hopkins University's Homewood campus this morning to speak with students of international relations and public policy about the nuclear agreement with Iran. Image caption: JHU President Ronald J. Daniels speaks with Sen. Ben Cardin after today's event. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Under the deal that the U.S. and five other nations reached with Iran in July, international sanctions against the Islamic republic would be lifted in exchange for Iran limiting its nuclear program so it cannot build nuclear weapons for a
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/04/bogdanovski-ncaa-top-30-nominee
 Johns Hopkins swimmer among 30 nominees for NCAA Woman of the Year honor | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins swimmer among 30 nominees for NCAA Woman of the Year honor Ana Bogdanovski, who graduated in May, earned school-record 10 NCAA titles during her career with Blue Jays By Hub staff report / Published Sept 4, 2015 Swimmer Ana Bogdanovski, a 2015 Johns Hopkins University graduate, has been selected as an NCAA Woman of the Year top 30 nominee, the first-ever Hopkins athlete included among the 30 finalists for this prestigious honor. Image caption: Ana Bogdanovski Bogdanovski, who captured 10 NCAA titles and earned All-America honors 23 times in her Blue Jays career, is one of 10 Division III athletes honored and one of five swimmers. The NCAA Woman of the Year top 30 honorees, selected from an initial group of 480 nominees, exemplify excellence in academics, athletics, community service, and leadership. Later this month, a selection committee will name nine finalists—three women each Divisions I, II, and
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/04/student-involvement-fair
 New members wanted: Student groups court Hopkins newcomers at annual Student Involvement Fair | Hub
Hub staff report
New members wanted: Student groups court Hopkins newcomers at annual Student Involvement Fair By Hub staff report / Published Sept 4, 2015 At Johns Hopkins University, there's a club for almost anybody. From the Hopkins Honeybees—a group that educates the community about the environmental necessity of bees—to the Brazilian Jiu Jitsu team and the Cubing Association (for Rubik's Cube masters), it's easy for students to find their niche. The difficult part is choosing which one (two, three, or maybe even four) to join. On Friday, Hopkins organizations gathered at the O'Connor Recreation Center for the seventh annual Student Involvement Fair, aiming to recruit new members. The fair, hosted by Student Leadership and Involvement, included representatives from an estimated 240 of JHU's more than 300 undergraduate student organizations. "The fair is a great way for freshman to get a flavor of campus life," said Phoebe Gennardo, a member of the Buttered
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/21/restaurants-coffee-shops-nine-east-33rd/
 Restaurants, coffee shop planned for new building near JHU's Homewood campus | Hub
Hub staff report
Restaurants, coffee shop planned for new building near JHU's Homewood campus Off-campus student housing complex Nine East 33rd will feature Spike Gjerde's Bird in Hand, PekoPeko Ramen, honeygrow fast-casual chain By Hub staff report / Published June 21, 2016 Two new restaurants and a coffee shop will occupy retail space in the new Nine East 33rd building, an off-campus student housing complex under construction at the intersection of St. Paul and 33rd streets in Baltimore's Charles Village neighborhood. Image caption: An early conceptual design (not a final design) of the planned mixed-use development on Johns Hopkins University property at 3200 St. Paul St. in Baltimore. Image credit: ARMADA HOFFLER PROPERTIES/DESIGN COLLECTIVE/JHU PekoPeko Ramen, a noodle restaurant owned by alum David Forster, will feature ramen, Japanese rice bowls, and other sides. And honeygrow, a Philadelphia-based fast-casual chain that emphasizes locally sourced ingredients, will serve stir-fry bowls, salads, smoothies, and build-your-own desserts.
http://hub.jhu.edu/arts-culture/
 Arts+Culture                 | Hub

Arts+Culture A literary revival Published Spring 2024 While many journals of its type have perished owing to budget cuts, the reborn Hopkins Review defies the odds and continues to champion eminent and emerging writers / Johns Hopkins Magazine Arts+culture Studio North marks 10 years of student filmmaking Published April 24, 2024 Student-run film and media production company hosts anniversary gala at the Parkway Theatre on April 24 Faculty honors Two elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences Published April 25, 2024 Diane Griffin, Du Yun among 250 individuals recognized for leadership, multidisciplinary work, and achievements in advancing the common good Black History Billie Holiday Center hosts a rent party Published April 16, 2024 The April 18 event will feature the music and dance of Black urban migrants in the early 1900s The great bookish bake-off April 4, 2024 Undergraduates convene at Johns Hopkins for humanities research symposium March 29,
http://hub.jhu.edu/athletics/
 Athletics                 | Hub

Athletics Men's lacrosse Hopkins holds off rival Maryland to capture Big Ten title Published April 21, 2024 Third-ranked Johns Hopkins jumped out to a 3-0 lead and never trailed against fifth-ranked Maryland in a 7-5 win in the 127th renewal of the greatest rivalry in college lacrosse before a standing-room-only crowd of 10,458 at Homewood Field Saturday afternoon. Athletics JHU's Baker earns Athletic Director of the Year honor Published March 20, 2024 She will be recognized on June 11 along with other recipients of the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics award Men's lacrosse Hopkins topples No. 2 Virginia Published March 3, 2024 Collison, Peshko score four goals apiece as No. 7 Blue Jays rally for 16-14 road win Women's basketball Hopkins shocks No. 4 CNU Published March 3, 2024 For the first time in more 25 years, the Johns Hopkins women's basketball team has advanced to the NCAA
http://hub.jhu.edu/community/
 Connecting our communities                 | Hub

Connecting our communities When Johns Hopkins bequeathed $7 million to create a hospital and university, he did so to benefit the city where he spent most of his life. Nearly 150 years later, Johns Hopkins remains steadfast in its commitment to Baltimore. As part of his Ten for One initiative, President Ronald J. Daniels has programs and partnerships that support the aspirations of Baltimore communities one of his top priorities. We like to say that we’re not just in Baltimore, but we are truly and proudly of Baltimore. Here are just a few examples of how we’re making a difference: Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Campus life Blue Jays, green thumbs Published May 7, 2024 Community garden at JHU Eastern welcomes staff members for a guided tour and conversations about urban farming Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Photos Fun bubbles up on Pi Day Published March
http://hub.jhu.edu/gazette/2013/august/undergraduate-teaching-labs
 Johns Hopkins unveils new Undergraduate Teaching Labs | Hub
Greg Rienzi
Johns Hopkins unveils new Undergraduate Teaching Labs Video: Deirdre Hammer and David Schmelick By Greg Rienzi / Published Aug 2013 The concave, glazed-glass facade of Homewood's new Undergraduate Teaching Laboratories actively, and quite beautifully, reflects a neighboring cluster of trees and the Buffano Sculpture Garden to its north. As one walks by the building, with each step the reflection alters like a kaleidoscope being turned. Inch closer, and the view adjusts further still, picking up details not visible before, like a sculpture or plant in the distance. On the other side of the glass, pure science comes into view. Starting here this fall, Johns Hopkins undergraduates will analyze enzymes, culture cells, and conduct other lab work intended to reinforce concepts introduced in lecture courses, and as a platform to scientific discovery that might lead to the next great breakthrough. The 105,000-square-foot facility, which opens in September, brings together under one
http://hub.jhu.edu/gazette/
May-June 2015 | Gazette | Hub

May-June 2015 Contents 1 Datebook Featured events Unlocking the secrets of ancient Greek pottery An exploration of racism JHU wrestler Paul Bewak 2 Currents JHU center to promote data-driven local government Element of surprise helps babies learn, researchers find 3200 St. Paul breaks ground, CVS store to anchor project Ed Catmull of Pixar and Disney to speak at commencement Johns Hopkins grad programs ranked among best by 'U.S. News' New JHU global affairs center to honor Henry Kissinger Drug shows promise for Alzheimer's JHU junior wins prestigious research award Centennial celebration JHU home page gets a fresh new look The real cost of fast food Johns Hopkins Medicine: Building out from the inside JHU's endeavors in Mongolia Johns Hopkins names four new Bloomberg Distinguished Professors 3 Focus Can we build a better heart? At the finish line Science nerd, humanities fan 4 Workplace For Jessica Madrigal Five steps added for
http://hub.jhu.edu/gazette/2013/june/news-mellon-grants-music-arts-humanities
 Three Mellon grants will support music, arts, humanities  | Hub
Kate Pipkin
Three Mellon grants will support music, arts, humanities By Kate Pipkin / Published June 2013 Johns Hopkins University has been awarded three grants from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation—totaling $2.5 million—to create a new interdisciplinary program in music between the Krieger School of Arts and Sciences and the Peabody Institute, to expand arts programming, and to support postdoctoral fellows in the humanities. A grant for $1.2 million will be used to engage bridge professors—jointly appointed by the Krieger School and Peabody—who will, in time, form the core of a faculty embedded in humanities and social science departments, with interests in aspects of music. These scholars will create a new music major that will capitalize on the rich resources in performance, music theory, and musicology at Peabody and in the historical, cultural, and scientific study of music at the Krieger School. One of the nation's oldest and most highly regarded music
http://hub.jhu.edu/gazette/2014/november-december/focus-station-north
 Johns Hopkins, MICA put down roots in Station North Arts and Entertainment District | Hub
Brennen Jensen
Johns Hopkins, MICA put down roots in Station North Arts and Entertainment District By Brennen Jensen / Published Nov-Dec 2014 It's noisy and dusty up on the second floor of 10 E. North Ave., the century-old building about a mile south of the Johns Hopkins Homewood campus whose sleek (if somewhat battered) moderne facade of contrasting travertine and soapstone dates to the 1939 opening of the erstwhile Centre Theatre here. The voluminous, three-story structure between Charles and St. Paul streets had begun life as a garage for Packards and Studebakers and in the late 1950s was ignobly carved up into banking offices. Then came vacancy and decay. Image caption: Thomas Dolby, the first Homewood Professor of the Arts, in the former Center Theatre, which next fall will house the Johns Hopkins–MICA Film Center. Of the revitalization of the Station North neighborhood, Dolby says, “Given the broader implications for the city
http://hub.jhu.edu/gazette/2015/march-april/currents-hopkins-offers-new-major
 Johns Hopkins offers new major in medicine, science, humanities | Hub
Kate Pipkin
Johns Hopkins offers new major in medicine, science, humanities By Kate Pipkin / Published March-April 2015 The Krieger School of Arts and Sciences has launched the medicine, science, and humanities major for students who want to examine medical and scientific issues through the lens of humanities studies. The new interdisciplinary major gives Johns Hopkins undergraduates the chance to pursue the natural sciences and the humanities, rather than having to choose one or the other. Beverly Wendland, interim dean of the Krieger School, says the major was created in part to help close the polarizing gap between the sciences and the humanities. "Given our academic strengths, Johns Hopkins is ideally suited to create a course of undergraduate concentration that focuses on the intersection of medicine, science, and the humanities," Wendland says. "In the rapidly changing landscape of higher education in the 21st century, interdisciplinary approaches are needed to promote intellectual innovations
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/21st-century-cities/articles/
 21st century cities | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles 21st century cities 21ST CENTURY CITIES How people feel about living in Baltimore Published Dec 5, 2023 Inaugural survey by Johns Hopkins 21st Century Cities Initiative benchmarks sentiments and experiences across Baltimore Q+A Unlocking the potential of Baltimore and other cities Published Feb 25, 2021 Matthew Kahn and Mac McComas of the 21st Century Cities Initiative discuss the decline of post-industrial cities and what can be done to reinvigorate their economies and communities Transportation Study details how faster train service would boost Baltimore economy Published Feb 4, 2021 Johns Hopkins' 21st Century Cities initiative report suggests investments in MARC train service would provide benefits for both residents of Baltimore and Washington, D.C. Urban policy New Johns Hopkins report details plan for digital equity in Baltimore Published Jan 25, 2021 A new 21st Century Cities Initiative report outlines steps to increase access to reliable high speed internet in cities
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/advanced-academic-programs/articles/
 Advanced academic programs | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Advanced academic programs Film+Media An immersive view of war in Ukraine Published March 8, 2024 War Up Close exhibit incorporates 360-degree panoramic images, drone footage, and 3D modeling to capture the devastation of the conflict Student spotlight Mission for good Published Sept 6, 2022 As part of Project Independence Day, Johns Hopkins graduate student Jonathan Klein helps purchase much-needed ambulances and deliver them to Ukraine This week How geospatial intelligence provides vital insights into Russia's invasion of Ukraine Published March 14, 2022 Johns Hopkins experts, former CIA employees Michael Ard and Jack O'Connor will discuss the growing roles satellite, drone, and aircraft imagery play in intelligence gathering Student spotlight TikTok advocacy Published Feb 7, 2022 JHU graduate student Florence-Olivia Genesse's feminist TikTok channel is changing minds—and saving lives Ghosts of Cuba Published Winter 2021 In Escape from Castro's Cuba, author Tim Wendel revisits Cuba and a cast of
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/baltimore-unrest/articles/
 Baltimore unrest | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Baltimore unrest Hearing their voices New approaches for reaching Baltimore's youth Published April 21, 2017 JHU's 21st Century Cities Initiative releases report based on conversations with young people in the wake of the death of Freddie Gray in 2015 Redlining Baltimore Discrimination's deep roots Published March 25, 2016 Four-event conversation series to explore legacy of discrimination in Baltimore Crime and policing The 'Ferguson effect' and Baltimore crime Published March 15, 2016 Arrests declined but crime did not increase in months before April 2015 unrest, researchers find MSE Symposium D. Watkins on activism, race Published Oct 8, 2015 Baltimore-born author, JHU alum visits campus as part of MSE Symposium Hearing Their Voices Tuning in to what young city residents have to say Published Aug 20, 2015 Project gives young people in Baltimore a chance to share their stories in wake of Freddie Gray's death, resulting unrest CEPAR to study
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/baltimore/articles/
 Baltimore | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Baltimore Shifting Perspectives Published Spring 2024 Meet the six Baltimore-based artists whose work will be on permanent display at Johns Hopkins, helping to celebrate the city's flourishing artistic talent and build bridges between the university and surrounding communities / Johns Hopkins Magazine Humanities research Overlooked history in sacred places Published March 30, 2023 The course Researching the Africana Archive: Black Cemetery Stories brings together a community of scholars to discover, recover, and maintain Baltimore's Black cemeteries Names+Narratives Elijah Cummings portrait honors 'devoted son of Baltimore' Published April 28, 2022 Painting of the late congressman, created by Baltimore artist Christopher Batten, will hang in the university's MSE Library A needed community ally Published Spring 2022 For nearly a decade, the Johns Hopkins Centro SOL program has promoted equity in health and opportunity for the Latino population of Baltimore / Johns Hopkins Magazine Books Native son Published April 22, 2022
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/brody-learning-commons/articles/
 Brody learning commons | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Brody learning commons Certifiable Green and gold Published May 2, 2013 Brody Learning Commons recognized for green construction, operations Curios at the Commons Published Winter 2012 Photos A visual bricolage of the university's intellectual diversity at the Brody Learning Commons / Johns Hopkins Magazine Conserving the past Published Nov 2012 Visiting conservators from Oman receive valuable training in Sheridan Libraries' new conservation lab in Brody Learning Commons / Gazette An uncommon library Published Sept 2012 Video Photos New Brody Learning Commons was designed with students in mind, from funky foam chairs to abundant natural light / Gazette Study hall Published Fall 2012 Video The newly opened Brody Learning Commons provides 42,000 square feet of study space and lots of natural light / Johns Hopkins Magazine
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/center-social-concern/articles/
 Center for social concern | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Center for social concern Community An equation for success Published April 17, 2023 Hopkins students develop tools to help a Baltimore food distribution operation meet the needs of more people in the city Hopkins Votes Registered and ready Published Oct 19, 2022 At absentee ballot party co-hosted by Center for Social Concern and Hopkins Votes, students get help navigating the voting process Community Pitching in to vaccinate Maryland Published June 8, 2021 After the mass vaccination site at the stadium closes, the Vaccine Volunteer Project will continue at Morgan State, the Village Learning Place Hopkins Votes JHU named Voter Friendly Campus Published March 15, 2021 Hopkins is among 231 universities to receive the designation from a national coalition that measures voting accessibility at schools and universities across the nation #HopkinsVotes Students get registered, ready for 2020 elections Published Feb 17, 2020 Hundreds of students get guidance on how
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/charles-village/articles/
 Charles village | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Charles village A new study in hospitality Published Feb 8, 2024 Ribbon-cutting ceremony marks official opening of The Study at Johns Hopkins, prominently situated on the corner of North Charles Street and East 33rd Street Lighting up Charles Street Published June 30, 2021 JHU and the Charles Village Civic Association recently celebrated a milestone: flipping the switch on an eagerly awaited lighted sign in the median at St. Paul and 33rd streets Real estate New hotel planned near Homewood Published Oct 2, 2019 The Study at Johns Hopkins, with 115 rooms, a restaurant, and conference space, will occupy the building currently home to the Blackstone apartments Construction ahead St. Paul Street project kicks off this week Published March 25, 2019 Nine-month streetscape effort designed create a vibrant, walkable retail district in Charles Village, enhance pedestrian safety Campus eats Pop-up dining Published Oct 19, 2017 Don't sleep on it:
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/community/articles/
 Community | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Community Economic opportunity BLocal BUILD College Alumni Reverse Vendor Fair sparks connections and opportunities Published April 5, 2024 Event brings BUILD College alumni businesses together to showcase their work and forge new partnerships Shifting Perspectives Published Spring 2024 Meet the six Baltimore-based artists whose work will be on permanent display at Johns Hopkins, helping to celebrate the city's flourishing artistic talent and build bridges between the university and surrounding communities / Johns Hopkins Magazine Arts+Culture Seeing Baltimore through a new lens Published March 13, 2024 Meet the six Baltimore-based artists whose work will be on permanent display at JHU, helping to celebrate the city's flourishing artistic talent Tower of power Annual contest gets students noodling around Published Feb 23, 2024 National Engineers Week competition pits area middle schoolers against Hopkins undergrads to build the tallest tower out of pasta and marshmallows Community Middle schoolers put science skills to
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/computational-medicine/articles/
 Computational medicine | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Computational medicine Biomedical engineering New tools map seizures in the brain, improve epilepsy treatment Published Nov 29, 2022 Two new models could solve a problem that's long frustrated millions of people with epilepsy and the doctors who treat them: how to find precisely where seizures originate to treat exactly that part of the brain. Biomedical engineering Septic shock starts earlier than understood and develops distinct levels of patient risk Published Sept 23, 2020 Study finds that hospitals could categorize patients based on risk and develop early monitoring systems to detect early stages of septic shock Minor update New program launches Published Aug 19, 2015 The computational medicine minor focuses on quantitative approaches to understanding, treating disease Lighthearted Jumpstart the heart (gently) Published Aug 28, 2013 Researchers explore use of light as alternative to electric jolts in treatment of life-threatening arrhythmias Treating disease digitally Published Nov 5, 2012 Video
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/csc/articles/
 Csc | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Csc #Hopkinsvotes Democracy on Decker Quad Published Oct 17, 2018 Interactive voting booth is part of Center for Social Concern's efforts to raise awareness, get out the vote for midterms #HopkinsVotes Students join effort to get out the vote Published Oct 15, 2018 More than 1,800 people from Hopkins have signed up for TurboVote, an online tool that assists with registration, absentee ballots President's Day of Service Hundreds from Hopkins make 'meaningful impact' Published Oct 15, 2018 Photos Nearly 1,000 participate in community service activities across Baltimore as part of 10th annual President's Day of Service #HOPKINSVOTES Hopkins launches voter registration push Published Sept 25, 2018 Events, resources designed to help students and others get ready to participate in November midterms #Nationalinternday Celebrating summer interns Published July 26, 2018 July 26 is National Intern Day, the perfect time to celebrate the more than 500 paid summer interns at
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/diversity/articles/
 Diversity | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Diversity Names+Narratives JHU celebrates faculty diversity program named for nursing icon Published April 24, 2024 A member of the School of Nursing faculty for more than two decades, Fannie Gaston-Johansson was known for her life's work studying health disparities, pain management, and palliative care, as well as her dedication to fostering inclusion Shifting Perspectives Published Spring 2024 Meet the six Baltimore-based artists whose work will be on permanent display at Johns Hopkins, helping to celebrate the city's flourishing artistic talent and build bridges between the university and surrounding communities / Johns Hopkins Magazine Arts+Culture Seeing Baltimore through a new lens Published March 13, 2024 Meet the six Baltimore-based artists whose work will be on permanent display at JHU, helping to celebrate the city's flourishing artistic talent Q+A Meet JHU's first director of disability, culture, and inclusion Published Jan 25, 2024 Nathan R. Stenberg discusses how his personal and
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/film-and-media-studies/articles/
 Film and media studies | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Film and media studies Arts+culture Studio North marks 10 years of student filmmaking Published April 24, 2024 Student-run film and media production company hosts anniversary gala at the Parkway Theatre on April 24 Television JHU group eyes science TV reboot Published Oct 10, 2023 Inspired by a landmark Hopkins television show from the '40s and '50s, a small team wants to create a new type of science program for the streaming age Film Forgotten era of filmmaking finds a new home Published Jan 3, 2023 The Sheridan Libraries has acquired the Academic Film Archive of North America, an eclectic collection of more than 7,600 vintage 16-mm films Film Emma Needell goes home again Published Fall 2022 Screenwriter Emma Needell, A&S '12, returned to her family's Colorado ranch to film Life Rendered, her new film about a cowboy who uses virtual reality to explore his secret inner self /
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/film-center/articles/
 Film center | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Film center Grand premiere Lights, camera, action Published Aug 27, 2015 Photos JHU film program expands into new production space in historic Centre Theatre
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/film/
 Film | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Film Film+Media An immersive view of war in Ukraine Published March 8, 2024 War Up Close exhibit incorporates 360-degree panoramic images, drone footage, and 3D modeling to capture the devastation of the conflict Film Emma Needell goes home again Published Fall 2022 Screenwriter Emma Needell, A&S '12, returned to her family's Colorado ranch to film Life Rendered, her new film about a cowboy who uses virtual reality to explore his secret inner self / Johns Hopkins Magazine Multimedia art Breaking down borders Published April 5, 2022 Photos As part of a cross-disciplinary initiative to respond to anti-Asian violence, artist Jane Jin Kaisen brings her films and installations to the SNF Parkway Theatre Q+A How to make it in a Hollywood on hiatus Published July 8, 2020 Johns Hopkins alum Emma Needell leads a conversation series about breaking into the entertainment industry during coronavirus shutdowns Film Finding common ground
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/film/articles/
 Film | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Film Film+Media An immersive view of war in Ukraine Published March 8, 2024 War Up Close exhibit incorporates 360-degree panoramic images, drone footage, and 3D modeling to capture the devastation of the conflict Film Emma Needell goes home again Published Fall 2022 Screenwriter Emma Needell, A&S '12, returned to her family's Colorado ranch to film Life Rendered, her new film about a cowboy who uses virtual reality to explore his secret inner self / Johns Hopkins Magazine Multimedia art Breaking down borders Published April 5, 2022 Photos As part of a cross-disciplinary initiative to respond to anti-Asian violence, artist Jane Jin Kaisen brings her films and installations to the SNF Parkway Theatre Q+A How to make it in a Hollywood on hiatus Published July 8, 2020 Johns Hopkins alum Emma Needell leads a conversation series about breaking into the entertainment industry during coronavirus shutdowns Film Finding common ground
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/homewood-campus/
 Homewood campus | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Homewood campus Campus improvement MSE Library prepares for major transformation Published April 2, 2024 The multiyear renovation, which begins July 10, will transform MSE into a more modern, accessible, and innovative resource for both digital and print-based scholarship at Johns Hopkins University A new study in hospitality Published Feb 8, 2024 Ribbon-cutting ceremony marks official opening of The Study at Johns Hopkins, prominently situated on the corner of North Charles Street and East 33rd Street 'A new experience of wow' Published Jan 23, 2023 Upperclassmen reflect on their first semester free of COVID-19 restrictions since spring 2020 Operations Homewood Intersession courses pivot to virtual format Published Dec 22, 2021 JHU is limiting the number of undergraduates who will return to campus before Jan. 18, shifting most courses online for optional three-week Intersession term Dining University will self-operate campus dining services at Homewood, Peabody Published Feb 2, 2021 The
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/institute-computational-medicine/articles/
 Institute for computational medicine | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Institute for computational medicine Natalia Trayanova elected to National Academy of Inventors Published Dec 3, 2019 Biomedical engineer recognized for her work developing 3D virtual heart models for patients with irregular heartbeats New postdoctoral fellowship in computational medicine Published Aug 12, 2019 Johns Hopkins and biotech company United Therapeutics launch a fellowship Minor update New program launches Published Aug 19, 2015 The computational medicine minor focuses on quantitative approaches to understanding, treating disease Risk investment Innovative ideas rewarded Published Oct 2, 2013 Two Johns Hopkins scientists receive prestigious NIH biomedical research grants
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/interdisciplinary-research/articles/
 Interdisciplinary research | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Interdisciplinary research 21ST CENTURY CITIES How people feel about living in Baltimore Published Dec 5, 2023 Inaugural survey by Johns Hopkins 21st Century Cities Initiative benchmarks sentiments and experiences across Baltimore Research funding Discovery Awards received by 35 interdisciplinary research teams Published May 8, 2023 Winning projects—chosen from 191 proposals—include 115 individuals from across the university Funding Johns Hopkins grants 35 teams Discovery Awards Published May 23, 2022 Winning interdisciplinary projects, chosen from a record 199 proposals, include 105 individuals from across the university SNF Agora Institute SNF Agora Institute welcomes new cohort of Visiting Fellows Published May 20, 2022 The new fellows, including the first Dissident in Residence, will explore social media algorithms, political corruption, campus discourse, Black voter mobilization, and other topics COVID-19 Hopkins researchers meet 'the urgency of this moment' Published April 21, 2020 The university has launched an ambitious, wide-ranging, interdisciplinary research effort to
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/international-relations/articles/
 International relations | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles International relations 3 Questions The road ahead after COP28 Published Dec 18, 2023 The U.N. summit's climate pact is a step in the right direction, but much more is needed, Hopkins expert Benjamin Link says Q+A What is Turkey's long game? Published Aug 4, 2022 Turkey continues to hint at blocking NATO expansion and walks a middle ground on the war in Ukraine. SAIS Turkey expert Lisel Hintz discusses what the enigmatic nation might be up to. International relations SAIS to host U.S.-ASEAN Institute for Rising Leaders Published May 12, 2022 Starting in 2023, the institute will bring approximately 30 mid-career public service professionals to SAIS annually for a multi-week leadership development program Graduate education Carey and SAIS offer dual degree Published Jan 4, 2021 The Master of Business Administration/Master of Arts in International Relations degree will provide graduate students with expertise in global problem-solving, leadership, and research
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/iran/articles/
 Iran | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Iran Commentary Suleimani assassination 'pulverizes' U.S. influence in Middle East Published Jan 6, 2020 JHU experts on the Middle East, international relations, and political science discuss the role Qassim Suleimani played in Iran's military and the potential fallout from his assassination by U.S. drone strike Interview Talking with Narges Bajoghli Published Fall 2019 The anthropologist, filmmaker, and writer discusses her debut book, an inside look on being pro-regime in Iran / Johns Hopkins Magazine Global affairs Why thousands are protesting in Iran Published Jan 4, 2018 Experts Vali Nasr, Ryan Calder discuss the economic causes of and political fallout from Iran's demonstrations Commentary Trump's 'strategic blunder' on Iran Published Oct 13, 2017 SAIS Dean Vali Nasr says decertifying nuclear deal is mistake that will define president's foreign policy legacy MIDDLE EAST A year after Hajj tragedy, political tensions linger Published Sept 8, 2016 As annual pilgrimage to Mecca
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/kathryn-edin/articles/
 Kathryn edin | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Kathryn edin Urban renewal Cities working for change Published Sept 16, 2016 21st Century Neighborhoods symposium draws mayors, other leaders to Baltimore to share ideas on 'lifting up distressed communities' Sociology How welfare failed millions Published Aug 23, 2016 Welfare now less responsive to families who need it, drives people to live on 'virtually nothing,' poverty expert Kathy Edin says A portrait of young lives in 'the other America' Published April 19, 2016 Sociologists DeLuca, Edin take in-depth look at disparate paths of Baltimore youth in 'Coming of Age in the Other America' 21st Century Cities Poverty and geography Published Jan 13, 2016 Video In JHU visit, White House official outlines Obama administration's efforts to address poverty The end of the end of the line Published Winter 2015 When Kathryn Edin began researching Americans forced to live on $2 a day, she did not know she would find
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/michael-bloomberg/articles/
 Michael bloomberg | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Michael bloomberg Awards+Honors Michael Bloomberg receives Presidential Medal of Freedom Published May 3, 2024 1964 JHU graduate honored for revolutionizing the financial information industry, transforming the state of education, the environment, public health, and the arts in New York City Interdisciplinary research Bloomberg Distinguished Professorships program to double in size Published Dec 14, 2021 Additional 50 scholars will join the university, primarily in crucial fields such as artificial intelligence, the health effects of climate change, racial equity, neuroscience, and pandemic preparedness and response University experts to advise mayors on coronavirus Published March 10, 2020 COVID-19 Local Leaders Initiative spearheaded by Michael Bloomberg uses expert guidance to support public health response to coronavirus Fulfilling a promise of Hopkins for all Published Spring 2019 Michael Bloomberg's historic $1.8 billion pledge for undergraduate financial aid promotes greater diversity at Johns Hopkins / Johns Hopkins Magazine Q&A In his own words: Michael
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/music/articles/
 Music | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Music Black History Billie Holiday Center hosts a rent party Published April 16, 2024 The April 18 event will feature the music and dance of Black urban migrants in the early 1900s Listen up Grammy-nominated music from Peabody faculty and alumni Published Jan 24, 2024 Check out our playlist of Hopkins-affiliated nominees and contributors ahead of the 2024 Grammy Awards The tell-tale A Published Spring 2022 Sheet music signed "E.A. Poe" found in the Sheridan Libraries' Special Collections could change what we know about the famous poet. But is it a forgery? / Johns Hopkins Magazine JHU's pep band turns 100 Published Spring 2022 A look back at the persistently pesky music troupe / Johns Hopkins Magazine STUDENT LIFE JHU's pep band turns 100 Published April 21, 2022 A look at the persistently pesky (and quirky) music troupe that has been a thorn in the side of visiting
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/politics/articles/
 Politics | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Politics Politics+Society An up-close look at pro-democracy conservatives Published April 1, 2024 In contrast to those who reject the results of the 2020 election, nearly a third of Republicans accept the results, trust institutions, and appreciate diverse political perspectives Q+A Birds aren't real* Published Feb 7, 2024 How a nonsensical protest sign sparked a movement that shed light on how conspiracies grow and spread Politics The Governor Wes Moore Published Winter 2023 One year into his governorship, Johns Hopkins Magazine sat down with Moore to talk about a life of service / Johns Hopkins Magazine Democracy+Politics New conservative principles for building trust in elections Published Nov 8, 2023 Principles released with new Gallup poll that shows wide partisan gaps in electoral confidence Democracy+Politics Report: Political violence imperils U.S. democracy Published Nov 7, 2023 Experts from around the globe express concern for the future of U.S. electoral processes Changing
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/public-policy/articles/
 Public policy | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Public policy 3 questions Taming inflation in the U.S. Published Oct 11, 2023 Economist Laurence Ball discusses the Fed's next move and whether it can achieve the sought-after 'soft landing' Changing hearts, minds, and stomachs Published Spring 2023 SAIS alumni Téa Ivanovic and Peter Schechter founded Immigrant Food to defend the vision of America as an immigrant nation / Johns Hopkins Magazine The metamorphosis Published Spring 2021 Lawrence T. Brown finds a metaphor of resistance while showing how segregation spread its wings through Baltimore / Johns Hopkins Magazine Q+A Report outlines a path for reducing child poverty Published Feb 28, 2019 Child poverty affects about 1 in 8 children in the U.S.; Hopkins economist Robert Moffitt discusses why it's a critical issue and what can be done about it RACE FORUMS Women of color and public policy Published Sept 17, 2018 'Women of color are no longer leading
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/race-relations/articles/
 Race relations | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Race relations The Kerner Report at 50 Reflections on race and inequality Published Feb 26, 2018 Anniversary conference explores landmark 1968 findings on racial unrest Commentary Race, inequality after Charlottesville Published Aug 22, 2017 JHU political scientist Robert Lieberman co-authors 'Foreign Affairs' article in aftermath of Virginia protests / Foreign Affairs Race in America JHU hosts discussion of identity, activism Published March 8, 2017 Diverse panel welcomed as part of JHU Forums on Race in America series Race in America Latinos post-election Published Dec 1, 2016 Panelists explore Latino identity, challenges, opportunities as part of Race in America series 'Stand together' Vigil brings healing, hope Published July 13, 2016 School of Medicine students organize gathering to protest recent acts of violence across the U.S. Redlining Baltimore Discrimination's deep roots Published March 25, 2016 Four-event conversation series to explore legacy of discrimination in Baltimore Race in America Angela Davis
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/race/articles/
 Race | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Race MLK Jr. Commemoration 'Be the hero in your own story' Published Jan 13, 2023 Collette V. Smith tells her story of making history as the NFL's first Black female coach at Johns Hopkins' 41st annual celebration of the life and legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Black beyond data Published June 2, 2022 Historian Jessica Marie Johnson leads several teams tapping into the power of datasets to uncover new truths about Black history Books Native son Published April 22, 2022 In 'Shelter,' JHU Professor of English and History Lawrence Jackson processes a homecoming to Baltimore Tomorrow's changemakers Published March 8, 2022 A new program developed by two Jhpiego board members fosters the next generation of activists A world more complete Published Aug 3, 2021 Historian Nathan D. Connolly investigates the brick wall of race, class, and real estate Vaccination Health disparities and the racial burden of COVID-19
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/sheridan-libraries/articles/
 Sheridan libraries | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Sheridan libraries Tasty tomes The great bookish bake-off Published April 4, 2024 More bakers than ever compete in the Sheridan Libraries' annual Edible Book Festival featuring baked goods inspired by literature Arts+culture Exhibit celebrates beloved jazz vocalist, daughter of Baltimore Published Feb 19, 2024 Known for her philosophy of 'soft power,' Ethel Ennis said she was proud to have bloomed where she was planted, in her hometown of Baltimore Arts+culture Public humanities transcends barriers Published Dec 19, 2023 An emerging field, the public humanities is raising awareness about social justice issues and leading to meaningful collaborations between Johns Hopkins University and local communities ARTS+CULTURE New details of Billie Holiday's early life Published April 11, 2023 With a newly acquired collection of Billie Holiday biographical materials, JHU historians are piecing together details about the jazz singer's largely unknown early life in Baltimore A legacy of Southern delicacies Published Spring
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/social-concern/articles/
 Social concern | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Social concern Intersession Refugee communities 101 Published Feb 4, 2016 JHU students get immersive introduction to issues facing immigrant communities in Baltimore and beyond Community Meaningful impact Published Oct 26, 2015 JHU's Community Impact Internships program honored by governor's office for service contributions Getting oriented Charm City crash course Published Aug 17, 2015 Orientation for first-year students includes full day devoted to seeing, learning about Baltimore Organizational Behavior Trial by fire Published July 22, 2015 Organizations can learn a thing or two from firefighters about coping with unpredictable situations Community interns make an impact Published June 29, 2015 Prosecutor Marilyn Mosby to speak to JHU students taking part in city community internships program, which is in its fifth year
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/sociology/articles/
 Sociology | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Sociology Sociology Sociologist Monica Prasad joins JHU Published Dec 15, 2023 Prasad analyzes socioeconomic problems to tackle complex challenges related to capitalism, neoliberalism, and social policy Authors+Insights The decline of the American dream Published Nov 9, 2023 In conversation with JHU President Ron Daniels, Leonhardt explores factors preventing many Americans from prospering Shock treatment Published Spring 2022 A recently published working paper authored by Johns Hopkins professors shows that traumatic life events heavily influence disadvantaged students' decisions about attending college / Johns Hopkins Magazine Sociology Baby carriage before marriage? Published Sept 7, 2021 New research by sociologist Andrew Cherlin suggests a historic shift away from the traditional marriage-then-baby continuum among college-educated moms A seat at the table Published Spring 2021 Reviewing Sociology Assistant Professor Christy Thornton's new book, 'Revolution in Development' / Johns Hopkins Magazine Sociology Poor families must move often, but rarely escape concentrated poverty Published Oct
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/station-north/
 Station north | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Station north Marquee moment A grand premiere for renovated Parkway Theatre Published April 21, 2017 Photos Long-dark 102-year-old theater reopens in Station North, will be permanent home of the Maryland Film Festival Community development grant Published Oct 28, 2015 Johns Hopkins, MICA receive city support for Station North projects Grand premiere Lights, camera, action Published Aug 27, 2015 Photos JHU film program expands into new production space in historic Centre Theatre The big picture Published Winter 2014 Power tools are roaring away on a new film and audio facility in Station North. / Johns Hopkins Magazine Station North The big picture Published Nov-Dec 2014 Johns Hopkins and MICA put down roots in the Station North Arts and Entertainment District / Gazette Arts space $5M gift for film center Published Oct 20, 2014 Stavros Niarchos Foundation Film Center will be cinema showplace with three screens, 600 seats, live performance
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/station-north/articles/
 Station north | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Station north Marquee moment A grand premiere for renovated Parkway Theatre Published April 21, 2017 Photos Long-dark 102-year-old theater reopens in Station North, will be permanent home of the Maryland Film Festival Community development grant Published Oct 28, 2015 Johns Hopkins, MICA receive city support for Station North projects Grand premiere Lights, camera, action Published Aug 27, 2015 Photos JHU film program expands into new production space in historic Centre Theatre The big picture Published Winter 2014 Power tools are roaring away on a new film and audio facility in Station North. / Johns Hopkins Magazine Station North The big picture Published Nov-Dec 2014 Johns Hopkins and MICA put down roots in the Station North Arts and Entertainment District / Gazette Arts space $5M gift for film center Published Oct 20, 2014 Stavros Niarchos Foundation Film Center will be cinema showplace with three screens, 600 seats, live performance
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/student-housing/articles/
 Student housing | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Student housing Coming soon New eats at Nine East Published June 21, 2016 Restaurants, coffee shop planned for new building near JHU's Homewood campus Campus life New student housing option Published April 22, 2016 Nine East 33rd, located in Charles Village, accepting applications for fall occupancy Coming soon Work begins at 3200 St. Paul Published March 26, 2015 Project, slated to be completed by August 2016, will feature student housing, restaurants, retailers, including CVS pharmacy Coming soon Mixed-use project plans announced Published Oct 15, 2014 Development project near JHU campus expected to include student apartments, retail space, restaurants, parking
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/swimming/
 Swimming | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Swimming ATHLETICS 2 receive postgrad scholarships Published June 23, 2017 Runner Lindsay Cheu, swimmer Andy Greenhalgh among 58 to earn prestigious award Swimming First at last Published March 17, 2017 Hopkins senior Evan Holder swims to NCAA title in 200 freestyle, breaks 29-year-old DIII record in the process Rio Olympics Former Blue Jays swim with the big fish Published July 28, 2016 Ana Bogdanovski and Pilar Shimizu will represent their countries at the 2016 Summer Games in Brazil Swimming Repeat champion Published March 17, 2016 Junior Andrew Greenhalgh wins DIII national title in 500 freestyle for second consecutive year Swimming Final lap for longtime coach Published Feb 15, 2016 Seven-time NCAA DIII coach of the year George Kennedy says his 31st season as coach of JHU's swim team will be his last Swimming Bogdanovski among NCAA Woman of the Year nominees Published Sept 4, 2015 Swimmer, who graduated
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/thomas-dolby/
 Thomas dolby | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Thomas dolby Music Best seat in the house Published Spring 2019 Thomas Dolby headlines virtual reality festival FUTVRE LANDS—kinda, sorta / Johns Hopkins Magazine CONCERT Thomas Dolby and the frontier of music Published Aug 3, 2018 As his summer tour winds down, Thomas Dolby talks performing, composing, and his 35-year career as a musical pioneer Dolby to lead new Peabody program Published March 16, 2017 Digital music pioneer to oversee Music for New Media undergraduate degree program Q+A Breaking sound barriers Published Oct 13, 2016 JHU professor, music pioneer Thomas Dolby discusses his new memoir and how technology has revolutionized music Young producers Middle school mixers Published May 4, 2016 Video City students record, mix their own music at after-school workshop led by JHU's Thomas Dolby Light City Baltimore Thomas Dolby among headliners at city festival Published Feb 4, 2016 Pop musician, digital music pioneer joined JHU faculty
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/thomas-dolby/articles/
 Thomas dolby | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Thomas dolby Music Best seat in the house Published Spring 2019 Thomas Dolby headlines virtual reality festival FUTVRE LANDS—kinda, sorta / Johns Hopkins Magazine CONCERT Thomas Dolby and the frontier of music Published Aug 3, 2018 As his summer tour winds down, Thomas Dolby talks performing, composing, and his 35-year career as a musical pioneer Dolby to lead new Peabody program Published March 16, 2017 Digital music pioneer to oversee Music for New Media undergraduate degree program Q+A Breaking sound barriers Published Oct 13, 2016 JHU professor, music pioneer Thomas Dolby discusses his new memoir and how technology has revolutionized music Young producers Middle school mixers Published May 4, 2016 Video City students record, mix their own music at after-school workshop led by JHU's Thomas Dolby Light City Baltimore Thomas Dolby among headliners at city festival Published Feb 4, 2016 Pop musician, digital music pioneer joined JHU faculty
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/undergraduate-research/
 Undergraduate research | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Undergraduate research Undergraduate Honors Two juniors named Goldwater Scholars Published April 5, 2024 Goldwater Scholarship provides financial support to undergraduates pursuing research careers in STEM fields Student research Program funds undergraduate summer research experiences Published Nov 16, 2023 Students chosen for next summer's program will work on independent research projects as members of Hopkins labs Undergraduate honors Rising senior earns Beinecke Scholarship Published July 6, 2023 Kendra Brewer plans to use funds to support her study of Indigenous art history Undergraduate honors Four win Goldwater Scholarships Published June 27, 2023 The scholarship recognizes outstanding research and achievements of students in STEM fields Choose your own adventure Published Summer 2023 The Phares Family Grant for International Engagement supports rising juniors and seniors who travel abroad for independent research / Johns Hopkins Magazine Student spotlight Medical journey comes full circle Published Oct 14, 2022 Johns Hopkins senior Rosa Rodríguez spent
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/university-rankings/articles/
 University rankings | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles University rankings 'U.S. News' rankings JHU graduate programs among nation's best Published April 9, 2024 38 JHU programs among publication's top 10 in the U.S., including No. 1 ranked programs in nursing and public health 'U.S. News' Rankings Engineering online programs again ranked among nation's best Published Feb 7, 2024 Three Whiting School of Engineering online programs now occupy the No. 1 spot University Rankings JHU No. 15 in World University Rankings Published Sept 27, 2023 The publication ranks more than 1,900 colleges around the world based on 18 key performance indicators University rankings Hopkins No. 9 in 'U.S. News' rankings Published Sept 18, 2023 JHU also ranks among the nation's top colleges in terms of student indebtedness, undergraduate research, and innovation 'U.S. News' Rankings School of Medicine withdraws from rankings Published May 16, 2023 Hopkins joins more than a dozen peers opting out of the rankings, which
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/us-news-and-world-report/articles/
 U.s. news and world report | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles U.s. news and world report 'U.S. News' rankings JHU graduate programs among nation's best Published April 9, 2024 38 JHU programs among publication's top 10 in the U.S., including No. 1 ranked programs in nursing and public health 'U.S. News' Rankings Engineering online programs again ranked among nation's best Published Feb 7, 2024 Three Whiting School of Engineering online programs now occupy the No. 1 spot University rankings Hopkins No. 9 in 'U.S. News' rankings Published Sept 18, 2023 JHU also ranks among the nation's top colleges in terms of student indebtedness, undergraduate research, and innovation 'U.S. News' Rankings School of Medicine withdraws from rankings Published May 16, 2023 Hopkins joins more than a dozen peers opting out of the rankings, which have come under scrutiny for their methodology, accuracy, and the priorities they promote 'U.S. News' rankings Hopkins graduate programs ranked among nation's best Published April 25,
http://hub.jhu.edu/topics/arts-culture/articles/2/
 Arts+Culture | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Arts+Culture Assimilating to America Published Spring 2024 Susan Muaddi Darraj's debut novel tells the intertwined stories of Palestinian Americans living in Baltimore / Johns Hopkins Magazine The Bard's Prophecies Published Spring 2024 SAIS Professor Eliot Cohen's new book explores what Shakespeare can teach us about modern-day politics / Johns Hopkins Magazine Sands of time Published Spring 2024 Andrew Motion's new collection features 15 poems he has written since moving to from the U.K. to the United States / Johns Hopkins Magazine Arts+Culture Cherry tree trailblazer Published March 21, 2024 Alumna biographer Diana Parsell discovers Eliza Scidmore, the forgotten heroine behind Washington's celebrated cherry trees Arts+Culture Seeing Baltimore through a new lens Published March 13, 2024 Meet the six Baltimore-based artists whose work will be on permanent display at JHU, helping to celebrate the city's flourishing artistic talent Film+Media An immersive view of war in Ukraine Published March 8,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/11/05/computational-medicine-disease/
Researchers begin to unravel complex medical mysteries using digital tools | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Researchers begin to unravel complex medical mysteries using digital tools Computational medicine enhances the way doctors detect, treat disease By Phil Sneiderman / Published Nov 5, 2012 Computational medicine, a fast-growing method of using computer models and sophisticated software to figure out how disease develops—and how to thwart it—has begun to leap off the drawing board and land in the hands of doctors who treat patients for heart ailments, cancer, and other illnesses. Using digital tools, researchers have begun to use experimental and clinical data to build models that can unravel complex medical mysteries. These are some of the conclusions of a new review of the field published in the Oct. 31 issue of the journal Science Translational Medicine. The article, "Computational Medicine: Translating Models to Clinical Care," was written by four Johns Hopkins professors affiliated with the university's Institute for Computational Medicine. The institute was launched in 2005 as
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/01/26/bloomberg-past-gifts/
 Recent gift lifts Bloomberg's lifetime giving to more than $1 billion | Hub
Office of Communications Staff Report
Recent gift lifts Bloomberg's lifetime giving to more than $1 billion By Office of Communications Staff Report / Published Jan 26, 2013 When Michael R. Bloomberg announced a gift of $350 million to Johns Hopkins University in January, it brought his overall financial support for the university to more than $1 billion, a sum that is believed to be the most from a single donor to an institution of higher education. Bloomberg's past support for the university is detailed here. Capital and Infrastructure In all, the mayor has given $240 million toward capital and infrastructure projects, including the Bloomberg Center for Physics and Astronomy in 1988, implementation of the Homewood campus master plan from 1998 through 2002, massive renovations and improvements at the Peabody Institute in 2000, and a complete gutting and interior rebuilding of the landmark Gilman Hall at Homewood from 2005 to 2007. Financial Aid In recent years,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/01/26/bloomberg-gift/
Michael R. Bloomberg commits $350 million to Johns Hopkins for transformational academic initiative  | Hub
Hub staff report
Michael R. Bloomberg commits $350 million to Johns Hopkins for transformational academic initiative New York Mayor believed first to give lifetime $1 billion to one U.S. higher education institution By Hub staff report / Published Jan 26, 2013 Philanthropist and New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has committed $350 million to Johns Hopkins University, anchoring a major initiative aimed at bringing significant innovation to U.S. higher education. The total commitment – the largest ever to the university – lifts Bloomberg's lifetime giving to Johns Hopkins beyond $1 billion. The majority of the new gift, $250 million out of $350 million, will be part of a larger effort to raise $1 billion to facilitate cross-disciplinary work across the university to galvanize people, resources, research and educational opportunities around a set of complex global challenges. Initially, the funds will be used to support the appointment of faculty in the areas of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/03/12/us-news-rankings/
JHU School of Education rises to No. 2 in U.S. News rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU School of Education rises to No. 2 in U.S. News rankings Seven Johns Hopkins graduate programs garner top 25 recognition Image caption: Johns Hopkins University School of Education building By Hub staff report / Published March 12, 2013 The Johns Hopkins University School of Education ranks second nationally among graduate education programs, according to new rankings released today by U.S. News & World Report. The school moved up from a No. 6 ranking last year. Education is among seven Johns Hopkins graduate programs deemed to be among the top 25 in the country by U.S. News, according to its 2014 rankings lists, which evaluate schools of education, engineering, and medicine, and programs in the social sciences and humanities. "We are very pleased to receive a number two ranking from U.S. News and World Report's Best Graduate Schools of Education," School of Education Dean David W. Andrews said. "This recognition
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/03/18/nasr-iran-nuclear-program/
Nasr: Signs of a break in deadlock over Iran's nuclear program | Hub
Hub staff report
Nasr: Signs of a break in deadlock over Iran's nuclear program Iran's 'strategic position is crumbling,' SAIS dean writes in NYT op-ed By Hub staff report / Published March 18, 2013 Today's New York Times includes an op-ed by Vali Nasr, dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, on negotiations over Iran's nuclear program and the leverage the U.S. has gained from economic sanctions. Nasr, author of the forthcoming book "The Dispensable Nation: American Foreign Policy in Retreat," suggests that now is the time for the U.S. and Iran to meet at the bargaining table to discuss Iran's nuclear ambition and make real progress toward a resolution. But in order for that to happen, Nasr writes, the U.S. must turn from a policy marked by sanctions and intimidation. Economic sanctions are biting hard in Iran. Meanwhile, its strategic position is crumbling because of the turmoil
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/05/02/blc-leed-gold-recognition/
Brody Learning Commons recognized for green construction, operations | Hub
Hub staff report
Brody Learning Commons recognized for green construction, operations Building receives gold certification from U.S. Green Building Council Image caption: The Keyser Quadrangle entrance to the Brody Learning Commons leads visitors directly into the 75-seat Daily Grind cafe, which is equipped with ample plugs for laptops and electronics. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published May 2, 2013 The Brody Learning Commons at Johns Hopkins University has been recognized for its green construction and operations with a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold certification from the U.S. Green Building Council, making it the first new construction on the Homewood campus to earn the distinction. The BLC received its LEED Gold certification based on a number of features, including: Increasing the use of natural day lighting to reduce energy consumption Using energy-efficient lighting and in teaching and study rooms light on sensors Establishing sustainable
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/06/18/vali-nasr-iran-elections/
Nasr: Iran's presidential elections a 'game-changer' for U.S.-Iran relations | Hub
Hub staff report
Nasr: Iran's presidential elections a 'game-changer' for U.S.-Iran relations Decisive win by reformist candidate gives Obama an opening By Hub staff report / Published June 18, 2013 Vali Nasr, dean of the Johns Hopkins School for Advanced International Studies, writes in a blog entry for Foreign Policy magazine that a decisive victory by moderate Hassan Rowhani in Iran's presidential elections is a "game-changer" for relations between the U.S. and Iran. Rowhani, described as a mid-mannered cleric, won 50.7% of the vote in a six-way race to replace departing leader Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, whose tenure, The New York Times wrote, "was defined largely by confrontation with the West and a seriously hobbled economy at home." In an interview with NPR's Melissa Block, Nasr spoke about the significance of Rowhani's election. "The message is that people of Iran are repudiating the legacy of Ahmadinejad," he said. "And that's quite important; that the Iranian
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/07/16/us-news-hospital-rankings/
Johns Hopkins Hospital reclaims top spot in U.S. News rankings of best hospitals | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins Hospital reclaims top spot in U.S. News rankings of best hospitals JHH has held top spot for 22 of 23 years; five specialty areas ranked No. 1 Image caption: Johns Hopkins Hospital Credit: Keith Weller / JHMI By Hub staff report / Published July 16, 2013 The Johns Hopkins Hospital has regained the No. 1 spot in the annual U.S. News & World Report rankings of the best hospitals in the nation, which were released today. Image caption:Johns Hopkins HospitalImage credit: Keith Weller / JHMI Johns Hopkins had held the top spot for 21 consecutive years, but dropped to No. 2 in last year's rankings, behind Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, before moving back up this year. "We're very pleased about that, because we had quite a story going," Ronald R. Peterson, president of Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System and executive vice president of Johns Hopkins Medicine,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/08/28/light-treatment-heart/
Researchers explore use of light to correct life-threatening arrhythmias | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Researchers explore use of light to correct life-threatening arrhythmias Treatment seen as gentler alternative to jolts delivered by defibrillators By Phil Sneiderman / Published Aug 28, 2013 When a beating heart slips into an irregular, life-threatening rhythm, the treatment is well known: deliver a burst of electric current from a pacemaker or defibrillator. But because the electricity itself can cause pain, tissue damage, and other serious side-effects, a Johns Hopkins-led research team wants to replace these jolts with a kinder, gentler remedy: light. Image caption: Natalia Trayanova In a paper published today in the online journal Nature Communications, five biomedical engineers from Johns Hopkins and Stony Brook universities described their plan to use biological lab data and an intricate computer model to devise a better way to heal ailing hearts. Other scientists are already using light-sensitive cells to control certain activities in the brain. The Johns Hopkins-Stony Brook researchers say
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/10/02/high-risk-high-reward-grants/
Two JHU scientists receive prestigious NIH biomedical research grants | Hub
Phil Sneiderman and Shawna Williams
Two JHU scientists receive prestigious NIH biomedical research grants Trayanova, Bjornsson among 'High Risk-High Reward' grant recipients By Phil Sneiderman and Shawna Williams / Published Oct 2, 2013 Two Johns Hopkins University faculty members have been chosen to receive prestigious grants from the National Institutes of Health allocated for biomedical research projects that face significant challenges but could lead to major health care payoffs. Natalia A. Trayanova, a professor of biomedical engineering, and Hans Tomas Bjornsson, a professor of genetics and pediatrics, are among 78 recipients nationwide of grants awarded by NIH's High Risk-High Reward Program. Image caption: Natalia Trayanova and Hans Tomas Bjornsson Trayanova will receive one of 12 NIH Director's Pioneer Awards, given annually to individual researchers who propose innovative projects that have the potential to produce a high impact on a broad area of biomedical or behavioral research. Trayanova's award will provide up to $2.5 million over
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/01/thomas-dolby-johns-hopkins/
Digital music pioneer, 1980s pop icon Thomas Dolby to join Hopkins faculty | Hub
Jill Rosen
Digital music pioneer, 1980s pop icon Thomas Dolby to join Hopkins faculty Dolby is best known for 1982 synthpop hit 'She Blinded Me With Science' Video: Len Turner and David Schmelick By Jill Rosen / Published March 1, 2014 Thomas Dolby, creator of the memorable 1980s synthpop anthem "She Blinded Me With Science," will join Johns Hopkins University's faculty as the first Homewood Professor of the Arts. Image caption: Thomas Dolby tours Baltimore's Parkway Theatre, which is currently being renovated. Image credit: Larry Canner Since the debut of his hit single in 1982—which peaked at No. 5 on the U.S. Billboard chart—Dolby, now 55, has been at the forefront of digital music, pioneering ways to merge the music with film, technology, and science. At Johns Hopkins, starting in the fall, he will be teaching "Sound on Film," a collaboration between Homewood's Film and Media Studies program and Peabody's Recording Arts
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/26/george-kennedy-named-great-leader-by-fortune/
'Fortune' lists JHU swim coach Kennedy among 'The World's 50 Greatest Leaders' | Hub
Hub Staff Report
'Fortune' lists JHU swim coach Kennedy among 'The World's 50 Greatest Leaders' He has won DIII national coach of year honors seven times in 29 seasons Image caption: George Kennedy Credit: Christopher Myers By Hub Staff Report / Published March 26, 2014 What does Johns Hopkins swimming coach George Kennedy have in common with Pope Francis, Bono, and the Dalai Lama? They all made Fortune magazine's list of "The World's 50 Greatest Leaders," which was published last week. Kennedy, 58, just completed his 29th season as coach of the Blue Jays' men's and women's swimming teams. He was named Division III coach of the year for the seventh time this past weekend in Indianapolis, Ind., where JHU's women's team finished a program-best third at the NCAA championships. In 29 years, his teams have finished in the top 10 nationally 41 times, and in the top five 16 times. But, he
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/25/jhu-commencement-speaker-susan-wojcicki-youtube
 YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki to deliver Johns Hopkins commencement address | Hub
Jill Rosen
YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki to deliver Johns Hopkins commencement address Video: Len Turner By Jill Rosen / Published March 25, 2014 Susan Wojcicki, CEO of YouTube, will address graduates of Johns Hopkins University at commencement on May 22, 2014. Image caption: Susan Wojcicki Named one of Fortune's "50 Most Powerful Women in Business," one of Forbes' "100 Most Powerful Women," and one of Vanity Fair's 50 "leading innovators [that] shake the foundations of their industries," Wojcicki became head of the video-sharing powerhouse earlier this year. "Susan Wojcicki has helped to revolutionize how we gather, interpret, and share information," said university president Ronald J. Daniels. "I cannot imagine a better speaker for a class of graduates who were not only raised in an entirely digital age—and who may have learned to Google at the same time they learned to read—but who are imbued with the type of restless, entrepreneurial energy that
http://hub.jhu.edu/magazine/2013/spring/george-kennedy-hopkins-swimming
Head first | Hub
Dale Keiger
Head first George Kennedy trains swimmers' bodies. But to really help them go fast, he trains their minds. Credit: Christopher Myers By Dale Keiger / Published Spring 2013 Midafternoon, mid-December at the Johns Hopkins varsity pool and George Kennedy Jr. watches a swimmer cleave the water of Lane 1. Kennedy is head coach of the men's and women's swim teams at Hopkins. The swimmer is Taylor Kitayama, a 5-foot-3 powerhouse sprinter who has won Kennedy's respect and affection by coming to the pool every day with purpose and focus on every detail of the day's workout. That focus has paid off. At this point in the 2012-13 season, she has swum the 100- and 200-yard backstroke and 100-yard butterfly faster than anyone else on the women's team. At a November meet alliteratively named the Gettysburg Final Fall Fast Festival, Kitayama set five pool records. As a sophomore at last year's
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/commencement-2014/articles/
 Commencement 2014 | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Commencement 2014 Unforgettable 'Inspiring' words Published Aug 5, 2014 Video Susan Wojcicki's JHU commencement address selected as one of the best of 2014 Happy Homecoming A very special delivery Published May 22, 2014 JHU senior gets surprise visit from her father, who has been deployed in Afghanistan for 16 months Commencement 2014 Class president: Graduates defined by patience, passion Published May 22, 2014 Video Video and full text of remarks by Johns Hopkins senior class president Sean Glass Commencement 2014 Susan Wojcicki's remarks Published May 22, 2014 Video YouTube CEO, Google employee No. 16 delivers featured address at commencement Commencement 2014 'Forget the master plan' Published May 22, 2014 Video President Daniels urges graduates to choose wisely, then 'choose and choose again' Commencement 2014 Seven get honorary degrees Published May 22, 2014 Video DOMA challengers Edith Windsor, Roberta Kaplan among those honored Commencement 2014 Congratulations graduates! Published May
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/05/23/jhu-commencement-live/
Complete coverage of Commencement Day 2013 at Johns Hopkins University | Hub

Complete coverage of Commencement Day 2013 at Johns Hopkins University Published May 23, 2013 A look back at Johns Hopkins University's commencement ceremony Commencement address videos Watch the complete remarks of three featured speakers: President Ronald J. Daniels Dr. Alfredo Qui&ntilde;ones-Hinojosa Alexandra Larsen, president of the Class of 2013 They've graduated. Party time on the Keyser Quad. This is a Hopkins graduation. #JHU2013 twitter.com/JohnsHopkins/s...— Johns Hopkins (@JohnsHopkins) May 23, 2013 That's a wrap 11:53 am: We're all done—every student has a degree, right through Public Health Studies major Arielle Aleksandra Zina. Congratulations to all of our graduates, and to all those who supported them from the beginning to the end of their Johns Hopkins journeys. Be proud. Name calling update 11:41 am: We're up to the Rs, for those playing along at home. Congrats, Amanda Joy Ross (and everyone else, of course)! Weather is holding out nicely—overcast but warm with
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/04/08/anne-smedinghoff-afghanistan
 Johns Hopkins graduate working as U.S. diplomat killed in Afghanistan | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins graduate working as U.S. diplomat killed in Afghanistan Smedinghoff, 25, was part of convoy traveling to school to donate books By Hub staff report / Published April 8, 2013 A 2009 graduate of Johns Hopkins University working as a State Department diplomat in Afghanistan was among five Americans killed Saturday when the convoy they were traveling in was struck by a suicide bomber. Image caption: Anne Smedinghoff Image credit: Family photo, via Chicago Tribune Anne Smedinghoff, 25, was among a group of officials traveling to a school to donate books. Four other Americans—a civilian and three soldiers—were also killed in the attack. Smedinghoff joined the U.S. Foreign Service after graduating from Johns Hopkins and, according to a statement released by her parents, "absolutely loved the work she was doing" in public diplomacy, engaged in direct outreach to the Afghan people. Her parents, Tom and Mary Beth Smedinghoff of
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/05/22/class-of-2013-by-the-numbers
 A look at the Johns Hopkins University Class of 2013 | Hub

A look at the Johns Hopkins University Class of 2013 Published May 22, 2013 Posted in University News Tagged commencement Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr You might also like Trending
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/commencement/articles/
 Commencement | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Commencement Commencement 2024 Kristen Corlay Sanmiguel selected as student speaker Published April 29, 2024 Civil engineering major elected by senior class to speak at this year's universitywide Commencement ceremony on May 23 Alumna Toni Draper named School of Education graduation speaker Published March 23, 2023 Draper, a publisher, pastor, business and community leader, returns to her alma mater to bring inspiration to the graduating class of the School of Education Commencement New date, location for 2022 Commencement ceremony Published Oct 18, 2021 Renovations at Royal Farms Arena prompted a date switch and the move to a sunset ceremony at Homewood Field From the archives 'Be bold,' President Bush told Hopkins graduates Published Dec 5, 2018 On May 22, 1996, former President George H.W. Bush—then just two and a half years out of office—spoke at JHU's undergraduate diploma ceremony Women's History Month 'Instruments of change' Published March 30, 2018
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/memoriam/articles/
 In memoriam | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles In memoriam In memoriam Published Winter 2023 / Johns Hopkins Magazine In memoriam Scholar, statesman Henry Kissinger dies at 100 Published Nov 29, 2023 Johns Hopkins created the Henry A. Kissinger Center for Global Affairs in 2016 to promote the study and practice of historically informed statecraft and strategy In memoriam Published Summer 2023 / Johns Hopkins Magazine In Memoriam Enterprising astronomer, space researcher Samuel Durrance dies at 79 Published May 10, 2023 Durrance, a Johns Hopkins research scientist from 1980 to 1997, made influential contributions to the Hopkins Ultraviolet Telescope and flew on two NASA missions as a payload specialist In memoriam Published Fall 2022 / Johns Hopkins Magazine In memoriam Published July 5, 2022 In memoriam Epidemiologist and AIDS expert Kenrad Nelson dies at 89 Published May 4, 2022 He spent 36 years on the Johns Hopkins faculty and contributed pioneering research to the fields of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/04/09/foreign-service-students-sais/
SAIS foreign service students weigh safety concerns after diplomat's death | Hub
Hub staff report
SAIS foreign service students weigh safety concerns after diplomat's death Many express concern that too much security will prevent them from doing their jobs effectively By Hub staff report / Published April 9, 2013 In the wake of the death of State Department diplomat Anne Smedinghoff, a 2009 Johns Hopkins graduate who was killed in a suicide attack in Afghanistan on Saturday, The Washington Post spoke with foreign service students at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington about the perils of working "in some of the most lawless countries on Earth." The students expressed concern, not that they would not be protected when they become U.S. diplomats, but that too much security would prevent them from doing their jobs effectively. From The Post: Today, they know, increasingly higher walls surround embassies and compounds, and diplomats travel in armored vehicles. The result is incredibly restricted movement in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/04/08/anne-smedinghoff-afghanistan/
Johns Hopkins graduate working as U.S. diplomat killed in Afghanistan | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins graduate working as U.S. diplomat killed in Afghanistan Smedinghoff, 25, was part of convoy traveling to school to donate books By Hub staff report / Published April 8, 2013 A 2009 graduate of Johns Hopkins University working as a State Department diplomat in Afghanistan was among five Americans killed Saturday when the convoy they were traveling in was struck by a suicide bomber. Image caption: Anne Smedinghoff Image credit: Family photo, via Chicago Tribune Anne Smedinghoff, 25, was among a group of officials traveling to a school to donate books. Four other Americans—a civilian and three soldiers—were also killed in the attack. Smedinghoff joined the U.S. Foreign Service after graduating from Johns Hopkins and, according to a statement released by her parents, "absolutely loved the work she was doing" in public diplomacy, engaged in direct outreach to the Afghan people. Her parents, Tom and Mary Beth Smedinghoff of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/04/10/anne-smedinghoff-remembered/
Friend of JHU grad killed in Afghanistan recalls her strength, dedication, smile | Hub
Hub staff report
Friend of JHU grad killed in Afghanistan recalls her strength, dedication, smile By Hub staff report / Published April 10, 2013 Raffi Joe Wartanian, a Baltimore native and 2008 Johns Hopkins University graduate, wrote a touching op-ed that appeared in today's edition of The Baltimore Sun about the life and death of his friend, Anne Smedinghoff. Smedinghoff, a 2009 JHU graduate, was one of five people killed Saturday when a suicide bomber struck her convoy in Afghanistan. The 25-year-old State Department diplomat was among a group of officials traveling to a school to donate books. Wartanian, a Fulbright Research Fellow and artist living in Yerevan, Armenia, recounts their cross-country bike ride together for the 4K for Cancer in 2009, and a more recent ride across Jordan. He remembers her for her warmth, strength, and commitment to helping others, for her tenacious spirit, her fearlessness, and her ever-present smile. For those
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/04/09/anna-bogdanovski-si-faces/
JHU swimmer Ana Bogdanovski featured in 'Sports Illustrated' | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU swimmer Ana Bogdanovski featured in 'Sports Illustrated' She set five school records, won five titles at DIII national championships By Hub staff report / Published April 9, 2014 Fresh off a record-setting performance at the Division III swimming national championships last month, Johns Hopkins junior Ana Bogdanovski is getting some more national recognition, this time from Sports Illustrated. Image caption: Ana Bogdanovski Bogdanovski, a native of Macedonia, won DIII titles (and set school records) in the 50-yard freestyle (22.80) and the 200 free (1:47.74) and was part of championship relay teams in the 200 freestyle, 400 freestyle, 400 medley, and 800 freestyle. The DIII swimmer of the year, who led the Blue Jays to a program-best third-place finish at nationals, is one of seven athletes spotlighted in the April 7 installment of Sports Illustrated's long-running "Faces in the Crowd" feature. The feature, which first appeared in the magazine in
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/10/03/hannah-kronick-faces-si
 JHU's Hannah Kronick among Sports Illustrated's 'Faces in the Crowd' | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU's Hannah Kronick among Sports Illustrated's 'Faces in the Crowd' By Hub staff report / Published Oct 3, 2013 Junior Hannah Kronick, a member of the undefeated Johns Hopkins women's soccer team, is one of seven athletes from around the world featured in the Sept. 30 installment of the long-running Sports Illustrated feature "Faces in the Crowd." The feature, which first appeared in the magazine in 1956, spotlights the accomplishments of unknown or amateur athletes. "Kronick, a junior forward at Johns Hopkins, was named the National Soccer Coaches Association of America D-III Player of the Week a second straight time after scoring three goals against Stevenson and Washington College," SI writes. "Leading the team in points at week's end (20), she has helped the 9-0 Blue Jays reach a program-best No. 2 ranking." Athletes featured in the past include golfing greats Jack Nicklaus and Tiger Woods, tennis champions Arthur Ashe
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/hannah-kronick/articles/
 Hannah kronick | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Hannah kronick Familiar face JHU's Kronick featured in SI Published Oct 3, 2013 Blue Jays' top scorer among magazine's 'Faces in the Crowd' The finisher Goals in mind Published Aug 2013 JHU soccer star Hannah Kronick is on a record-setting scoring pace as she enters her junior season / Gazette
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/womens-soccer/articles/
 Women's soccer | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Women's soccer Women's soccer Crowning achievement for Blue Jays Published Dec 4, 2022 The Blue Jays put the finishing touches on a magical campaign Sunday, defeating Case Western 2-1 in the NCAA Division III title game Women's soccer Dan Weiler named head coach Published Feb 20, 2020 He led Christopher Newport to a 113-22-12 record, six NCAA tournament appearances in seven seasons Women's soccer Hopkins blanked in NCAA quarterfinal loss Published Nov 25, 2019 William Smith scores twice in second half for 2-0 win, handing the Blue Jays just their third loss of the season Women's soccer Hopkins advances with shutout win Published Nov 18, 2019 Seniors Maggie Coulson and Emily Maheras scored, and goalkeeper Caitlin Hendricks posted a shutout to propel the Blue Jays to the NCAA third round Women's soccer Senior Michelle Santangelo named first-team All-American Published Dec 1, 2017 Senior scored 18 goals, the seventh-best
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/10/03/hannah-kronick-faces-si/
JHU's Hannah Kronick among Sports Illustrated's 'Faces in the Crowd' | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU's Hannah Kronick among Sports Illustrated's 'Faces in the Crowd' By Hub staff report / Published Oct 3, 2013 Junior Hannah Kronick, a member of the undefeated Johns Hopkins women's soccer team, is one of seven athletes from around the world featured in the Sept. 30 installment of the long-running Sports Illustrated feature "Faces in the Crowd." The feature, which first appeared in the magazine in 1956, spotlights the accomplishments of unknown or amateur athletes. "Kronick, a junior forward at Johns Hopkins, was named the National Soccer Coaches Association of America D-III Player of the Week a second straight time after scoring three goals against Stevenson and Washington College," SI writes. "Leading the team in points at week's end (20), she has helped the 9-0 Blue Jays reach a program-best No. 2 ranking." Athletes featured in the past include golfing greats Jack Nicklaus and Tiger Woods, tennis champions Arthur Ashe
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/21/qureshi-family-sixth-commencement/
One family, six Johns Hopkins commencements | Hub
Hub staff report
One family, six Johns Hopkins commencements Azam Qureshi joins his five siblings in receiving his degree from JHU By Hub staff report / Published May 21, 2014 Families from all around the world will gather at Homewood Field on Thursday morning to cheer on the Class of 2014. Image caption: Parveen Qureshi met with Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels on Wednesday to thank him for the past 25 years that her family has spent happily connected to Johns Hopkins. On Thursday, she will watch the youngest of her six children receive his Hopkins degree, just like his five siblings before him. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University For many parents, it will be their first universitywide commencement ceremony. But Bilal and Parveen Qureshi are no strangers to Johns Hopkins' pomp and circumstance: May 22 will mark the Qureshi family's sixth commencement. Tomorrow, they'll be celebrating the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/22/commencement-2014-daniels/
Video and full text of President Daniels' remarks at JHU's 2014 commencement | Hub
Hub staff report
Video and full text of President Daniels' remarks at JHU's 2014 commencement Video: Deirdre Hammer By Hub staff report / Published May 22, 2014 Remarks as prepared for Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels for the universitywide commencement ceremony on May 22, 2014. To our honorary degree recipients, alumni, and trustees; to our faculty and staff, to our parents, family members and friends; and most especially to our graduates: Welcome to the Johns Hopkins University commencement for the great Class of 2014! I recognize that you are a class that has put up with some extreme conditions to reach this day. The churning construction on Charles Street. The onslaught of organic food at the CharMar. The endless Polar Vortex and seven-and-a-half snow days this year alone. The teeming rain at 5 o'clock this morning, just before you went to bed. And you've even tolerated my inexpert forays into Bollywood
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/22/commencement-2014-glass/
Video and full text of remarks by Johns Hopkins senior class president Sean Glass | Hub
Hub staff report
Video and full text of remarks by Johns Hopkins senior class president Sean Glass Video: Deirdre Hammer By Hub staff report / Published May 22, 2014 Remarks as prepared for Johns Hopkins University senior class president Sean Glass for the universitywide commencement ceremony on May 22, 2014. A quarter of the way through the journey of our lives, we decided to attend one of the greatest universities in the world. When we first arrived, we were nervous about the challenges but excited about the opportunities that we would have here. Today, dressed in our caps and gowns, we proudly represent the Class of 2014 of the Johns Hopkins University. Congratulations to you all! Of course, none of this would be possible without the guidance of our mentors. To our parents, thank you for sacrificing the time, energy, and money to ensure that we had the best possible future. To our
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/22/commencement-2014-honorary-degrees/
Johns Hopkins awards seven honorary degrees at commencement ceremony | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins awards seven honorary degrees at commencement ceremony Video: Len Turner and Malcolm Douglas By Hub staff report / Published May 22, 2014 Seven individuals received honorary degrees at Johns Hopkins University's commencement ceremony today for their distinguished accomplishments. The recipients are: Edith Windsor, a fearless fighter whose lawsuit against the U.S. government led the Supreme Court to declare that the1996 Defense of Marriage Act violated the Constitution. President Obama called the ruling a "victory for American democracy," and Windsor was hailed, at the age of 84, as a hero of the gay-rights movement. Roberta Kaplan, a lawyer who took on Edith Windsor's case in 2009 pro bono and won. Kaplan, a highly respected attorney with degrees from Columbia and Harvard, has been described as a "powerhouse corporate litigator." She has received accolades from publications, such as The American Lawyer, and organizations, including the American Constitution Society. She is
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/22/commencement-2014-livestream-broadcast/
 Live video: Johns Hopkins University commencement 2014 | Hub

Live video: Johns Hopkins University commencement 2014 Published May 22, 2014 Commencement 2014 schedule of events Times are approximate 7:30 a.m.—Peabody, Nursing, KSAS, and Whiting undergraduates report to line-up on Keyser Quad 7:30 a.m.—All doctorate and masters candidates report to line-up in the gyms 8:25 a.m.—The undergraduate walk begins from Keyser Quadrangle. The Peabody Band leads the walk 8:40 a.m.—The undergraduates will start arriving at the staging area outside the stadium and will enter Homewood Field. They will be joined by the doctorate and masters candidates. 9:00 a.m.—Platform party processes into the stadium 9:06 a.m.—Procession complete and ceremony is called to order by Chief Marshal Lieberman 9:08 a.m.—Invocation by Kathy Schnurr 9:10 a.m.—National Anthem sung by Alex Rosen 9:12 a.m.—Trustee Chair welcome by Jeff Aronson 9:16 a.m.—Alumni Association welcome by Terri McBride 9:18 a.m.—President Daniels remarks 9:25 a.m.—Honorary degree recipient video 9:27 a.m.—Honorary degree presentation 9:42 a.m.—Class President, Sean Glass,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/22/commencement-2014-photos/
Complete coverage of commencement day at Johns Hopkins University | Hub
Hub staff report
Complete coverage of commencement day at Johns Hopkins University Video: Len Turner, David Schmelick, Deidre Hammer, Jim Trone, and Kenny Carter By Hub staff report / Published May 22, 2014 About 1,500 students received their degrees today at the commencement ceremony for all of Johns Hopkins University's divisions and campuses. The ceremony included remarks from President Ronald J. Daniels and from the featured speaker, Susan Wojcicki, CEO of YouTube; the conferring of all degrees; and the bestowing of honorary degrees. In addition, all undergraduate students as well as doctoral students in attendance had their names announced as they filed on stage to have their degrees recognized. "Graduates, today I have the great honor, as both a president and a parent, of joining every family member gathered here with admiration, a sense of wonder, and infinite optimism about your future," Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels—whose son, Drew, was among
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/04/21/honorary-degree-recipients
 Seven to receive honorary degrees from Johns Hopkins at commencement | Hub
Hub staff report
Seven to receive honorary degrees from Johns Hopkins at commencement Honorees include Edith Windsor and her lawyer, Roberta Kaplan, who took the fight for marriage rights to the Supreme Court By Hub staff report / Published April 21, 2014 The woman and her lawyer who took the fight for marriage rights to the Supreme Court and a Pulitzer Prize-winning author are among seven distinguished achievers who will receive Johns Hopkins University honorary degrees at commencement this year. Image caption: Edith Windsor Image credit: Andy Kropa / Getty Images The honorary degrees will be conferred at the universitywide commencement ceremony on May 22 at Homewood Field. The recipients are: Edith Windsor, a fearless fighter whose lawsuit against the U.S. government led the Supreme Court to declare that the1996 Defense of Marriage Act violated the Constitution. President Obama called the ruling a "victory for American democracy," and Windsor was hailed, at the
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/22/commencement-2014-daniels
 Video and full text of President Daniels' remarks at JHU's 2014 commencement | Hub
Hub staff report
Video and full text of President Daniels' remarks at JHU's 2014 commencement Video: Deirdre Hammer By Hub staff report / Published May 22, 2014 Remarks as prepared for Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels for the universitywide commencement ceremony on May 22, 2014. To our honorary degree recipients, alumni, and trustees; to our faculty and staff, to our parents, family members and friends; and most especially to our graduates: Welcome to the Johns Hopkins University commencement for the great Class of 2014! I recognize that you are a class that has put up with some extreme conditions to reach this day. The churning construction on Charles Street. The onslaught of organic food at the CharMar. The endless Polar Vortex and seven-and-a-half snow days this year alone. The teeming rain at 5 o'clock this morning, just before you went to bed. And you've even tolerated my inexpert forays into Bollywood
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/president-ron-daniels/articles/
 President ron daniels | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles President ron daniels Message University leaders share update on Homewood campus encampment Published May 10, 2024 A message to the Johns Hopkins University community from President Ron Daniels and Provost Ray Jayawardhana Message President Daniels shares message on campus protest Published May 2, 2024 His update on outreach to protesters reiterates the university's commitment 'to maintaining a campus environment that values free speech, but also where everyone feels safe and welcome' Message University leaders share update on campus protest Published April 30, 2024 President, provost describe 'peaceful and productive resolution' to support continuation of pro-Palestinian protest at Homewood Authors+Insights The decline of the American dream Published Nov 9, 2023 In conversation with JHU President Ron Daniels, Leonhardt explores factors preventing many Americans from prospering Hopkins in D.C. Hopkins Bloomberg Center launches Authors & Insights series Published Oct 30, 2023 Series starts with book events featuring 'New York Times'
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/25/jhu-commencement-speaker-susan-wojcicki-youtube/
YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki to deliver Johns Hopkins commencement address | Hub
Jill Rosen
YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki to deliver Johns Hopkins commencement address Video: Len Turner By Jill Rosen / Published March 25, 2014 Susan Wojcicki, CEO of YouTube, will address graduates of Johns Hopkins University at commencement on May 22, 2014. Image caption: Susan Wojcicki Named one of Fortune's "50 Most Powerful Women in Business," one of Forbes' "100 Most Powerful Women," and one of Vanity Fair's 50 "leading innovators [that] shake the foundations of their industries," Wojcicki became head of the video-sharing powerhouse earlier this year. "Susan Wojcicki has helped to revolutionize how we gather, interpret, and share information," said university president Ronald J. Daniels. "I cannot imagine a better speaker for a class of graduates who were not only raised in an entirely digital age—and who may have learned to Google at the same time they learned to read—but who are imbued with the type of restless, entrepreneurial energy that
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/22/commencement-2014-timeline/
Updates from Johns Hopkins University commencement | Hub

Updates from Johns Hopkins University commencement Published May 22, 2014 See Johns Hopkins Commencement 2014 coverage on Storify Posted in University News Tagged commencement 2014 Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr You might also like Trending
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/22/commencement-2014-valledor/
Special guest: JHU senior gets surprise visit from father, home from Afghanistan | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Special guest: JHU senior gets surprise visit from father, home from Afghanistan Col. John Valledor returns early from Kabul for daughter's graduation Credit: James VanRensselaer/Homewood Photography By Dennis O'Shea / Published May 22, 2014 Image credit: James VanRensselaer/Homewood Photography Amanda Valledor had to wait a few extra minutes to pick up her diploma. The delay was worth it. Because when commencement volunteers sorted out the "problem" with her "misplaced" bachelor's degree after the Johns Hopkins University's graduation ceremony Thursday, the "staffer" who brought out the missing parchment was the father she had thought was 6,800 miles away. Serving in Afghanistan. "Did you see her face?" Col. John Valledor laughed afterwards. Yup. It was a jaw-dropping moment. Actually it was more of a hear someone say he found your diploma, turn to face him, realize he's wearing camo, realize he's a soldier, remember your Dad's a soldier, realize HE'S YOUR DAD
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/22/commencement-2014-wojcicki/
Video: YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki speaks at Johns Hopkins graduation | Hub
Hub staff report
Video: YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki speaks at Johns Hopkins graduation For full remarks, click here. Video: Deirdre Hammer By Hub staff report / Published May 22, 2014 Susan Wojcicki, CEO of YouTube, addressed the Class of 2014 at Johns Hopkins University's commencement today, sharing personal stories from her own remarkable career and interspersing words of wisdom for the new graduates. Wojcicki, who became head of the video-sharing powerhouse earlier this year, noted that most of this year's graduates were born in the same year as the Internet. She recalled her own graduation day in 1990 at Harvard University (though admitted she couldn't remember a single thing the speaker at her commencement said). "Back then, only really bad things went viral. Like mono. Things you definitely did not want," Wojcicki quipped. "The world has changed a lot since I graduated. The acceleration of technological progress is unmatched in our history, and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/01/susan-wojcicki-honorary-degree/
Google employee No. 16: Susan Wojcicki was first marketing exec for search giant  | Hub
Joe Sugarman
Google employee No. 16: Susan Wojcicki was first marketing exec for search giant She will be one of seven 2014 Johns Hopkins honorary degree recipients By Joe Sugarman / Published May 1, 2014 Like seemingly so many technology companies, Google started in a garage—Susan Wojcicki's garage, to be exact. In 1998, Wojcicki rented her Menlo Park, Calif., carport as office space to two Stanford graduates, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who were starting a search engine company with an unusual sounding name. "They wrote me a little security deposit—it must have been on one of the first Google checks—and they moved in the next day," Wojcicki recalled in an interview for Makers.com. After the company outgrew the space, Brin and Page hired their former landlord as the company's 16th employee and first marketing exec. "They wanted to build a global brand and we had no budget and there was just
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/01/edith-windsor-honorary-degree/
Unlikely activist: Edith Windsor successfully challenged Defense of Marriage Act | Hub
Joe Sugarman
Unlikely activist: Edith Windsor successfully challenged Defense of Marriage Act She will be one of seven 2014 Johns Hopkins honorary degree recipients By Joe Sugarman / Published May 1, 2014 Edith Windsor never thought she'd one day become a hero for the gay rights movement. But when her spouse—Thea Spyer, whom she had married legally in Canada—died, Windsor sued the U.S. government in 2010 for $363,053, the amount she had to pay in estate taxes after Spyer's death. Under the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act, which defined marriage as a union between a man and a woman, Windsor was not entitled to the federal estate tax exemption for surviving spouses. When the Supreme Court decided 5-4 in Windsor's favor last June, it declared that DOMA violated the U.S. Constitution by barring legally married, same-sex couples from enjoying the benefits of marriage conferred under federal law. The decision marked the first
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/01/fred-lazarus-honorary-degree/
Baltimore thought leader: Fred Lazarus retiring this spring after 35 years as MICA's president | Hub
Joe Sugarman
Baltimore thought leader: Fred Lazarus retiring this spring after 35 years as MICA's president He will be one of seven 2014 Johns Hopkins honorary degree recipients By Joe Sugarman / Published May 1, 2014 Fred Lazarus promised his family they'd stay in Baltimore just five years when he accepted the position of president of the Maryland Institute College of Art in 1978. Thirty-five years later, Lazarus is retiring from his post this spring after helping to transform MICA into one of the country's foremost art colleges. Under his leadership, MICA's enrollment has more than doubled; the size of the campus has increased tenfold; the endowment has grown by more than 25 times; and the institution has established three research centers and added 17 undergraduate and graduate academic programs. During his tenure, Lazarus, who is known for his distinctive bow-ties, has emphasized the importance of college-community relationships as well as the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/01/norm-augustine-honorary-degree/
Born to lead: Norm Augustine was CEO of world's largest defense contractor | Hub
Joe Sugarman
Born to lead: Norm Augustine was CEO of world's largest defense contractor He will be one of seven 2014 Johns Hopkins honorary degree recipients By Joe Sugarman / Published May 1, 2014 "Find good people, tell them what you want, and then leave them alone," Norman Augustine told IndustryWeek in an interview last year. "That's my management secret. It'll save you two years, $100,000 at business school, if you do those things." Augustine should know. As the former CEO and chairman of the board at Lockheed Martin, the world's largest defense contractor, Augustine was responsible for managing more than 180,000 employees. And although he claims to have come to leading others "quite by accident," it's something he has done effectively since his days as an Eagle scout growing up in Colorado. Before overseeing the merger of Lockheed Corp. and Martin Marietta in 1995, he held positions as undersecretary of the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/01/pamela-flaherty-honorary-degree/
Charitable citizen: Pamela Flaherty oversees Citi's generous philanthropic enterprise | Hub
Joe Sugarman
Charitable citizen: Pamela Flaherty oversees Citi's generous philanthropic enterprise She will be one of seven 2014 Johns Hopkins honorary degree recipients By Joe Sugarman / Published May 1, 2014 Pamela P. Flaherty is responsible for managing a very generous checkbook—and it's not just because she works for Citi, one of the largest financial organizations in the world. As president and CEO of the Citi Foundation and director of Corporate Citizenship, she helps decide how the bank spends its charitable dollars. Flaherty, a former chair of the Johns Hopkins board of trustees, oversees the distribution of tens of millions of dollars in grant money and financial support to organizations and individuals in more than 100 countries. The company provides assistance for a broad range of needs on the local level, including neighborhood redevelopment programs, disaster response efforts, microfinance loans to new businesses in the United States and in developing countries, enterprise
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/01/roberta-kaplan-honorary-degree/
Civil rights defender: Roberta Kaplan won DOMA ruling from U.S. Supreme Court | Hub
Joe Sugarman
Civil rights defender: Roberta Kaplan won DOMA ruling from U.S. Supreme Court She will be one of seven 2014 Johns Hopkins honorary degree recipients By Joe Sugarman / Published May 1, 2014 Appearing before the Supreme Court in March last year, Roberta A. Kaplan laid out her argument as bluntly as she could: "No one has identified any legitimate difference between gay couples and straight married couples that can possibly explain the sweeping undifferentiated and categorical discrimination of DOMA." Three months later, in a 5-4 decision, the justices agreed. The court's ruling in United States vs. Windsor overturned section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, which had excluded gay couples from more than 1,100 federal provisions, such as filing taxes jointly, claiming Social Security survivor benefits, and—in the case of Kaplan's client, Edith Windsor—claiming the federal estate tax exemption for surviving spouses. When she agreed to represent Windsor pro
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/01/taylor-branch-honorary-degree/
Historian and storyteller: Taylor Branch has never shied away from important topics | Hub
Joe Sugarman
Historian and storyteller: Taylor Branch has never shied away from important topics He will be one of seven 2014 Johns Hopkins honorary degree recipients By Joe Sugarman / Published May 1, 2014 "I remained fearfully oblivious to race until the relentless freedom movement redirected my entire life's interest," writes Taylor Branch, who grew up in segregated Atlanta, in the introduction to his latest book. That interest has led to hundreds of magazine articles and 11 books on everything from Watergate to the hypocrisy of college sports. But Branch is best known for his 2,300-page trilogy on the civil rights era, America in the King Years. The first in the series, Parting the Waters: America in the King Years,1954–63, was a co-winner of the Pulitzer Prize for History in 1989. Since the start of his career as a reporter for The Washington Monthly in 1970, Branch has never shied away from
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/06/11/bloomberg-professors-morgan-janak-sutcliffe/
Johns Hopkins appoints three new Bloomberg Distinguished Professors | Hub
Kelly Brooks
Johns Hopkins appoints three new Bloomberg Distinguished Professors Image caption: Patricia Janak, Stephen Morgan, and Kathleen Sutcliffe will join Johns Hopkins as Bloomberg Distinguished Scholars on July 1. By Kelly Brooks / Published June 11, 2014 Editor's note: This article will be published in the forthcoming July/August issue of the Gazette. Three world-class scholars, Stephen Morgan, Patricia Janak, and Kathleen Sutcliffe, will join the Johns Hopkins University faculty as Bloomberg Distinguished Professors on July 1. They are among a total of 50 cross-disciplinary professors who will come to Johns Hopkins over the next five years. These appointments, in addition to those of Peter Agre, Kathryn Edin, and Carol Greider, who were named to these prestigious endowed professorships earlier this year, bring the current number of Bloomberg Distinguished Professors to six. "There's a lot of excitement about these people coming on board," says Barbara Landau, vice provost for faculty affairs. "We
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/02/17/bloomberg-distinguished-professors
 With Bloomberg Distinguished Professorships, Johns Hopkins aims to foster cross-specialty collaboration | Hub
Kelly Brooks
With Bloomberg Distinguished Professorships, Johns Hopkins aims to foster cross-specialty collaboration Edin, Agre, Greider are first of 50 scholars to be appointed to BDP posts Image caption: Carol Greider (left), Peter Agre, and Kathryn Edin. By Kelly Brooks / Published Feb 17, 2014 Editor's note: This article will be published in the forthcoming March/April issue of the Gazette. The answer to the world's biggest problems doesn't lie in any one discipline, be it biology or public health, sociology or medicine. Rather, big problems require big thinkers, people who bring the best insights from a wide spectrum of human knowledge. Bridging disciplines and training a new generation of cross-specialty collaborators are the goals of Johns Hopkins' new Bloomberg Distinguished Professorships, funded a year ago by alumnus Michael R. Bloomberg, class of 1964. Over the next five years, 50 world-class scholars will be appointed to the professorships; each will be a part
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/bloomberg-distinguished-professorships/articles/
 Bloomberg distinguished professorships | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Bloomberg distinguished professorships Pediatrics Let's talk about childhood injury prevention Published April 16, 2024 By simply talking to parents about preventing injuries, pediatricians can help families keep kids safer Sociology Sociologist Monica Prasad joins JHU Published Dec 15, 2023 Prasad analyzes socioeconomic problems to tackle complex challenges related to capitalism, neoliberalism, and social policy Artifact Art as a pathway to planetary science Published Winter 2023 New book by Sabine Stanley makes planetary science accessible to readers while inspiring textile artists from around the world / Johns Hopkins Magazine Hopkins in D.C. Leading health policy scholar joins JHU Published Nov 16, 2023 Melinda Buntin, Bloomberg Distinguished Professor of Health Policy and Economics, will lead a newly established Center for Health Systems and Policy Modeling Q+A Cutting through the distortion on musician hearing health Published Oct 30, 2023 Bloomberg Distinguished Professor Kris Chesky talks about the musician-specific earplug industry, and
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/carol-greider/articles/
 Carol greider | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Carol greider Open letter To Trump, from scientists Published Nov 30, 2016 JHU's Agre, Greider join more than 2,300 scientists in urging new administration to respect 'scientific integrity and independence' / The Washington Post Faculty honors Greider joins American Philosophical Society Published May 9, 2016 Molecular biologist, Nobel laureate among 33 honored for excellence in their fields Bloomberg scholars Big thinkers for big problems Published Feb 17, 2014 With 50 Bloomberg Distinguished Professors, the first three of which were named Monday, Hopkins aims to foster cross-specialty collaboration
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/peter-agre/articles/
 Peter agre | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Peter agre 3 Questions How science can help countries forge unlikely connections Published April 12, 2024 By finding common ground in science, nations with otherwise strained relationships can build ties and establish friendships, says Nobel laureate and science diplomat Peter Agre Open letter To Trump, from scientists Published Nov 30, 2016 JHU's Agre, Greider join more than 2,300 scientists in urging new administration to respect 'scientific integrity and independence' / The Washington Post Bloomberg scholars Big thinkers for big problems Published Feb 17, 2014 With 50 Bloomberg Distinguished Professors, the first three of which were named Monday, Hopkins aims to foster cross-specialty collaboration Discovering new channels Published July 26, 2012 Video For Nobel Prize winner Peter Agre, persistent curiosity led to key molecular discovery
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/rising-challenge/articles/
 Rising to the challenge | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Rising to the challenge Strengthening the core Published Winter 2018 Besides its staggering success in raising more than $6 billion for Johns Hopkins, the Rising to the Challenge campaign generated unprecedented support for traditional core disciplines / Johns Hopkins Magazine Elif's legacy Published Winter 2018 Fellowship at SAIS supports students with career and research interests in humanitarian assistance and public health in the developing world / Johns Hopkins Magazine Peabody's support helps lift city musician to new heights Published Oct 12, 2018 Peabody provides a springboard for East Baltimore native Mateen Milan, who dreams of joining a professional orchestra Philanthropy fuels student's excellence—and his empathy Published Oct 12, 2018 Internship grants and a scholarship helped alumnus Suleiman Abiola choose a career path and serve a struggling Baltimore community in the process SAIS alumna's legacy carries on in memorial fellowship Published Oct 12, 2018 A recipient of the Elif
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/07/26/peter-agre-innovation/
For Agre, persistent curiosity led to key discovery | Hub
Ann Lano
For Agre, persistent curiosity led to key discovery Molecular biologist helped identify water-selective channel protein, earning him the 2003 Nobel Prize in chemistry By Ann Lano / Published July 26, 2012 This article is part of the Provost's Project on Innovation series Peter Agre, director of the Malaria Research Institute and co-recipient of the 2003 Nobel Prize in chemistry, is quick to give others much of the credit for his success. "It's the people I met along the way that really had major effects upon the pathway—and also the luck of discovery," he says modestly. "If I had any advice to give a young person who wants to make a discovery, it's, 'Be around people who are supportive, patient, and innovative because they'll bring you to their level.' Hopkins has a lot of people like that." As with most innovators, this self-effacing Minnesotan made a few unusual but fortuitous career
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/02/17/bloomberg-distinguished-professors/
With Bloomberg Distinguished Professorships, Johns Hopkins aims to foster cross-specialty collaboration | Hub
Kelly Brooks
With Bloomberg Distinguished Professorships, Johns Hopkins aims to foster cross-specialty collaboration Edin, Agre, Greider are first of 50 scholars to be appointed to BDP posts Image caption: Carol Greider (left), Peter Agre, and Kathryn Edin. By Kelly Brooks / Published Feb 17, 2014 Editor's note: This article will be published in the forthcoming March/April issue of the Gazette. The answer to the world's biggest problems doesn't lie in any one discipline, be it biology or public health, sociology or medicine. Rather, big problems require big thinkers, people who bring the best insights from a wide spectrum of human knowledge. Bridging disciplines and training a new generation of cross-specialty collaborators are the goals of Johns Hopkins' new Bloomberg Distinguished Professorships, funded a year ago by alumnus Michael R. Bloomberg, class of 1964. Over the next five years, 50 world-class scholars will be appointed to the professorships; each will be a part
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/05/wojcicki-best-commencement-adresses/
Susan Wojcicki's JHU commencement address one of 2014's most inspiring | Hub
Hub staff report
Susan Wojcicki's JHU commencement address one of 2014's most inspiring Video: Deirdre Hammer By Hub staff report / Published Aug 5, 2014 YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki's speech at Johns Hopkins University's graduation ceremony in May has been chosen as one of the nation's top commencement addresses of 2014 by a professional association of commencement and convocation officers from colleges and universities across the country. The North American Association of Commencement Officers identified six speakers who gave "inspiring and unforgettable" speeches. Wojcicki, they wrote, "connected with students, faculty, and guests to create a sense of excitement about what the future holds for each of the graduates. Her genuine enthusiasm came through in her remarks. She was a testament to what can happen when you stay humble and take risks." Watch: Susan Wojcicki's commencement address at Johns Hopkins Wojcicki, who became head of YouTube earlier this year, addressed JHU's Class of 2014
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/26/charles-street-construction-completion/
Two-year Charles Street reconstruction project next to JHU nears completion | Hub
Hub staff report
Two-year Charles Street reconstruction project next to JHU nears completion By Hub staff report / Published Aug 26, 2014 The two-year North Charles Street reconstruction project adjacent to Johns Hopkins University's Homewood camps is nearing its completion, the Baltimore City Department of Transportation announced yesterday. The northbound and southbound lanes of Charles Street from 29th Street to University Parkway will reopen to vehicular traffic on or about Sept. 5, the city says, and "substantial completion" of the project is expected by Sept. 30. At that time, all sidewalks will be open and accessible to pedestrians. The $28 million project was financed in part by a $2.5 million contribution from the university; the goal has been to build a safer and more attractive Charles Street for pedestrians, bicyclists, and drivers. Even after "substantial completion" is achieved, the city says, additional work will have to be completed. Depending on weather conditions, community
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/29/insomnia-cookies-sweetens-breezeway/
Insomnia Cookies sweetens the Breezeway | Hub
Hub staff report
Insomnia Cookies sweetens the Breezeway Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Aug 29, 2014 Insomnia Cookies visited the Breezeway on Thursday to hand out free treats to students and staff. President Ron Daniels and Vice Provost for Student Affairs Kevin G. Shollenberger stopped by to sample cookies and welcome Charles Village's newest blue mascot to the neighborhood. The bakery at 3301 N. Charles St. (just across the street from the Homewood campus) specializes in fresh cookie delivery until 3 a.m. daily. Posted in University News, Student Life Tagged president ron daniels, charles village Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Related Content
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/06/27/insomnia-cookies-charles-village/
Coming soon to Johns Hopkins: Fresh-baked cookies delivered until 3 a.m. | Hub
Hub staff report
Coming soon to Johns Hopkins: Fresh-baked cookies delivered until 3 a.m. Insomnia Cookies will open its first Baltimore location next month By Hub staff report / Published June 27, 2014 Johns Hopkins students can soon add "fresh-baked cookies" to their list of after hours food options. Insomnia Cookies, a bakery that specializes in fresh cookie delivery until 3 a.m. daily, will open its first Baltimore location late next month at 3301 N. Charles St. (just across the street from the Homewood campus), the Baltimore Business Journal reported. The Bryn Mawr, Pa.-based chain was founded in 2003 by a University of Pennsylvania student, who began baking and delivering warm cookies to students late at night. There are now more than 40 locations nationwide because ... well because they deliver warm cookies late at night. Enough said. Insonmia's cookie choices include chocolate chunk, snickerdoodle, peanut butter, and double chocolate mint. The menu
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/09/04/thomas-dolby-ap/
From synth pop star to professor of the arts | Hub
Hub staff report
From synth pop star to professor of the arts Thomas Dolby talks about his new role as a teacher at JHU Video: Associated Press By Hub staff report / Published Sept 4, 2014 The 21st century digital music scene is simultaneously a DIYer's dream come true and a source of frustration, according to Thomas Dolby, a pop icon and a new professor in the Krieger School. Image caption: Thomas Dolby speaks with students in his class, "Sound on Film,” at Peabody. Image credit: AP Photo/Patrick Semansky Dolby, creator of the memorable 1980s synthpop anthem "She Blinded Me With Science," just started his first semester as a member of the Johns Hopkins faculty. The first Homewood Professor of the Arts recently spoke to the Associated Press about the freedom the 12 students in his Sound on Film course have to market their own work online—and that freedom's inherent pitfalls. "The bad
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/09/09/us-news-rankings/
Johns Hopkins remains among top 12 in 'U.S. News' rankings of best colleges | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins remains among top 12 in 'U.S. News' rankings of best colleges JHU also recognized for socio-economic diversity, value, undergraduate research; engineering rises to 15th nationally Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Sept 9, 2014 The Johns Hopkins University remains 12th in the newest U.S. News & World Report "best colleges" rankings, maintaining for a second year its highest placement in the past 15 editions of the widely read college guide. Last September, the university was tied for 12th among national universities. In the list released Tuesday, Johns Hopkins stands alone in that spot. "Fundamentally, the best universities comprise exceptional students, extraordinary scholars and teachers, and an environment that allows them to do their best work together," said Ronald J. Daniels, president of the university. "At Johns Hopkins, we work every day to foster an ever more supportive and dynamic environment for
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/13/peabody-classical-music-symposium/
Peabody's Bronstein to lead discussion on the future of classical music | Hub
Bret McCabe
Peabody's Bronstein to lead discussion on the future of classical music Event will be shown live on the Johns Hopkins Ustream channel By Bret McCabe / Published Oct 13, 2014 Over the summer, new Peabody Institute Dean Fred Bronstein appeared on National Public Radio's "The Diane Rehm Show" to talk about the future of classical music. It's a topic that orchestras and classical music critics and administrators have mulled over for at least two decades, and the discussion touched on two of the big problems orchestras have faced: sustaining an expensive art form and audience engagement. Bronstein was joined by New Yorker critic Alex Ross, concert pianist Orli Shaham, and critic and Julliard faculty member Greg Sandow, who maintains a blog on the subject. During that discussion Rehm asked Bronstein about the role of music training in classical music's future, and he responded with a message he's maintained since his
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/15/charles-village-property-development/
Development project near JHU campus expected to include student apartments, retail space, parking | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Development project near JHU campus expected to include student apartments, retail space, parking Construction at intersection of St. Paul, 33rd streets could begin by April Image caption: An early conceptual design, for the purposes of discussion with the community and city, of the planned mixed-use development on Johns Hopkins University property at 3200 St. Paul St. in Baltimore. It is not a final design. Credit: Armada Hoffler Properties/Design Collective/JHU By Dennis O'Shea / Published Oct 15, 2014 Market-rate student apartments combined with retail space, restaurants, and parking could be under construction by spring on Johns Hopkins University property at St. Paul and 33rd streets in Baltimore's Charles Village neighborhood. The project—about a block away from the university's Homewood campus—is expected to include 157 student apartments and 31,500 square feet of commercial space. Both will wrap around a parking structure with 162 spaces for use both by tenants and the public.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/20/parkway-gift-stavros-niarchos/
Stavros Niarchos Foundation gives $5M to Johns Hopkins for film center  | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Stavros Niarchos Foundation gives $5M to Johns Hopkins for film center JHU, in partnership with MICA and Maryland Film Festival, to turn historic Parkway Theater into center for study, production, exhibition of film Image caption: Artist’s conception of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Film Center Credit: Courtesy of Ziger/Snead Architects By Dennis O'Shea / Published Oct 20, 2014 The Stavros Niarchos Foundation has committed $5 million to Johns Hopkins, enabling the university, the Maryland Institute College of Art, and the Maryland Film Festival to transform Baltimore's historic Parkway Theater into a center for the study, production, and exhibition of film. The new Stavros Niarchos Foundation Film Center will be a cinema showplace with three screens, 600 seats, and live performance space. Scheduled to open in late 2016, it will help to anchor the Station North neighborhood's developing role as a Baltimore arts destination, supporting cultural and economic growth in the area.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/12/06/homewood-community-announcement/
Johns Hopkins to give $10M to Homewood-area projects | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Johns Hopkins to give $10M to Homewood-area projects Goal is to help enhance, strengthen neighborhoods near campus Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels and Andrew B. Frank, senior advisor to the president on economic development, announce the university's $10 million commitment to neighborhoods near the Homewood campus. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Dennis O'Shea / Published Dec 6, 2012 The Johns Hopkins University will contribute $10 million over five years to enhance and strengthen neighborhoods surrounding the university's Homewood campus in northern Baltimore City, President Ronald J. Daniels announced today. The money will fund projects chosen in conjunction with the neighborhoods themselves and with other members of the Homewood Community Partners Initiative, a collaborative effort convened by Johns Hopkins last year. The university also hopes to attract more funding from other institutions, foundations, and businesses interested in the area surrounding Homewood, roughly from University Parkway south to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/12/07/community-projects-viewpoint/
Editorial: University's approach more important than $10M pledge | Hub
Hub staff report
Editorial: University's approach more important than $10M pledge By Hub staff report / Published Dec 7, 2012 One day after Johns Hopkins pledged $10 million over five years to neighborhoods near the university's Homewood campus, The Baltimore Sun published an editorial praising the university and President Ronald J. Daniels for "pioneering a strongly collaborative approach with the communities around Homewood and to the south." The model of city institutions and communities working together towards shared goals is one that Daniels has experience with from his days at the University of Pennsylvania, The Sun notes, and one that can and should be emulated in Baltimore. The $10 million is certainly significant, but of more lasting—and replicable—importance is the structure for collaboration that preceded it. As important as Hopkins has been to the city, it has not always been trusted. The process by which the Homewood Community Partners Initiative was developed—hundreds of
http://hub.jhu.edu/2012/12/06/homewood-community-announcement
 Johns Hopkins to give $10M to Homewood-area projects | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Johns Hopkins to give $10M to Homewood-area projects Goal is to help enhance, strengthen neighborhoods near campus Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels and Andrew B. Frank, senior advisor to the president on economic development, announce the university's $10 million commitment to neighborhoods near the Homewood campus. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Dennis O'Shea / Published Dec 6, 2012 The Johns Hopkins University will contribute $10 million over five years to enhance and strengthen neighborhoods surrounding the university's Homewood campus in northern Baltimore City, President Ronald J. Daniels announced today. The money will fund projects chosen in conjunction with the neighborhoods themselves and with other members of the Homewood Community Partners Initiative, a collaborative effort convened by Johns Hopkins last year. The university also hopes to attract more funding from other institutions, foundations, and businesses interested in the area surrounding Homewood, roughly from University Parkway south to
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/hcpi/articles/
 Hcpi | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Hcpi Community A 'core' commitment Published Sept 16, 2016 University lends support to new effort to bring attention to the vibrant, diverse heart of Baltimore Focus on public safety Published Jan-Feb 2015 University, neighbors support collaborative effort for added police manpower, TV-camera monitoring along North Charles Street / Gazette Strong first year for community initiative Published Dec 2013 Roughly $2 million of the $10 million that Johns Hopkins committed to implement HCPI has been spent or committed to date, spread out over several projects / Gazette JHU contributes to summer upgrades for two city schools Published Aug 28, 2013 Video Photos University, school system split $1.6 million cost of improvements at Margaret Brent, Barclay Town and gown Published Feb 27, 2013 No longer islands of privilege in a sea of need, urban universities use their talent, treasure to transform local communities / SAISPHERE Editorial A fresh approach on
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/02/27/daniels-community-saisphere/
Daniels: Urban universities can transform local communities | Hub
Hub staff report
Daniels: Urban universities can transform local communities By Hub staff report / Published Feb 27, 2013 The new issue of SAISPHERE, which explores the theme "Cities Lead the Way for Global Change," includes an essay from President Ronald J. Daniels about the vital role Johns Hopkins will play in strengthening Baltimore now and in the future. "No longer islands of privilege in a sea of need," the essay's subheadline reads, "urban universities are using their talent and treasure to transform local communities." Daniels acknowledges the challenges brought on by a half-century of urban decline—not just in Baltimore, but in urban centers across the country—but sees a city poised for a 21st century renaissance. "In a city such as Baltimore, it is not hard to see the decay," Daniels writes. "Today, Baltimore is one of the most crime-ridden cities in America, and its poverty rate is more than double the statewide
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/02/27/saisphere-cities/
Annual SAIS magazine explores how cities will lead the way for global change | Hub
Hub staff report
Annual SAIS magazine explores how cities will lead the way for global change By Hub staff report / Published Feb 27, 2013 Each year, the Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, D.C., publishes SAISPHERE, an in-depth look at a pressing issue or topic in our world. The recently 2012-13 issue of the annual magazine asked members of the faculty, scholar, student, and alumni community to explore the theme, "Cities Lead the Way for Global Change." Image credit: Cover image by Grant Faint/Getty Images "Ours is the century of cities," SAIS Dean Vali Nasr writes in his opening essay. "Already by 2010, 50.5 percent of the world's population was living in urban areas. In a few decades that number will rise to 70 percent. During the 21st century, the world as we know it will be defined by the tempo, geography and challenges of city life. Cities
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/08/28/barclay-brent-schools-renovations/
Johns Hopkins contributes to $1.6M in renovations for two Baltimore schools | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Johns Hopkins contributes to $1.6M in renovations for two Baltimore schools University, city school system split cost of summer upgrades By Dennis O'Shea / Published Aug 28, 2013 More than 750 public school students in Baltimore's Charles Village return to classes this year in buildings that are safer, more functional, more attractive, and better suited for learning, thanks to $1.6 million in summer upgrades. Half the rapid renovations at Margaret Brent and Barclay elementary and middle schools were donated by The Johns Hopkins University. Baltimore City Public Schools matched the university's contribution, allowing the two schools to replace badly worn, inadequate, out-of-date restrooms; renovate their cafeterias; create more welcoming, attractive, and secure entrances; and install windows and doors to admit more natural light. In addition, Barclay now has improved handicapped access and a renovated, more efficient kitchen. New doors and a security system are to be installed this week at
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/03/04/centre-theater-marquee-lighting/
Marquee comes to life as long-dormant Centre Theatre nears reopening | Hub
Hub staff report
Marquee comes to life as long-dormant Centre Theatre nears reopening Century-old building will soon be home to Johns Hopkins film program Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published March 4, 2015 The long-vacant Centre Theatre located about a mile south of Johns Hopkins' Homewood campus, was alive with activity Tuesday evening at a ceremonial marquee lighting celebrating its nearly complete renovation. Image caption: Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels (left) with Charlie Duff, president of Jubilee Baltimore; Timothy Armbruster of the Central Baltimore Partnership; and Sammy Hoi, president of the Maryland Institute College of Art. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University The century-old building will soon be home to a film and audio facility to be co-managed by Johns Hopkins and the Maryland Institute College of Art. JHU and MICA students will gather there to think about the artistic pairing of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/03/10/us-news-grad-school-rankings/
Johns Hopkins graduate programs rated among nation's best by 'U.S. News' | Hub
Tracey Reeves
Johns Hopkins graduate programs rated among nation's best by 'U.S. News' Public Health, Education again No. 1 in publication's annual rankings Image caption: Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health By Tracey Reeves / Published March 10, 2015 Johns Hopkins University graduate programs in education, medicine, public health, and nursing—and in individual disciplines including biomedical engineering—remain among the best in the nation, according to the newest U.S. News & World Report "Best Graduate School" rankings. The report, released Tuesday, ranks JHU's programs in public health and education No. 1 in the nation. Johns Hopkins is also ranked No. 2 for nursing and No. 3 for medicine. The master's and doctoral programs at the university's Bloomberg School of Public Health have held the No. 1 spot every year since the magazine began ranking schools of public health more than 20 years ago (new public health rankings are released every four years).
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/07/us-news-rankings-online-grad-programs
 3 Johns Hopkins online graduate programs ranked among nation's best | Hub
Hub staff report
3 Johns Hopkins online graduate programs ranked among nation's best By Hub staff report / Published Jan 7, 2015 Three Johns Hopkins online graduate programs are among the best in the nation, according to new rankings released today by U.S. News & World Report. JHU ranks No. 3 nationally among graduate nursing programs, up from No. 24 a year ago. Computer Information Technology (No. 5, up from No. 13) and Engineering (No. 12, up from No. 14) were also included in the publication's annual Best Online Programs rankings, which rank the nation's best online graduate programs in seven disciplines in addition to the best online bachelor's programs. "We are pleased that we've made such a tremendous jump," said Patricia M. Davidson, dean of the School of Nursing. "We've taken a thoughtful and strategic approach in this fast-moving learning space and will continue our commitment to provide our online students with
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/online-education/articles/
 Online education | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Online education Rankings Three Johns Hopkins master's degree programs among top online programs in the country Published Jan 26, 2021 Programs from the schools of Nursing and Engineering are included in annual rankings from 'U.S. News & World Report' Nursing School of Nursing releases free training course for responding to pandemic Published May 15, 2020 Course explores how nurses can respond to the challenges posed by low resources and high societal uncertainty in the wake of COVID-19 Online education Bloomberg School course ranks among Coursera's most popular Published Aug 16, 2019 Psychological First Aid, which teaches participants how to respond to mental health needs in emergency situations, recognized for high enrollment, completion rate U.S. News rankings Johns Hopkins home to 3 top online programs Published Jan 13, 2016 Graduate programs in Engineering, Nursing, Information Technology included in publication's annual rankings Online master's in BME Published June 30, 2015
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/07/17/new-sph-coursera-courses/
Johns Hopkins School of Public Health doubles Coursera course offerings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins School of Public Health doubles Coursera course offerings Eight new online courses added; 342,000 enrolled over past year By Hub staff report / Published July 17, 2013 As part of its growing online educational program, the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health today announced that it would launch eight new online courses in collaboration with Coursera. The announcement comes on the one-year anniversary of the day Johns Hopkins began its partnership with Coursera. The School of Public Health's new online offerings are: Case-Based Introduction to Biostatistics Design & Interpretation of Clinical Trials Major Depression in the Population: A Public Health Approach Mathematical Biostatistics Boot Camp II Saving Lives, Millions at a Time: Global Disease Control Policies & Programs Statistical Analysis of fMRI Data Statistical Reasoning for Public Health: Estimation, Inference, & Interpretation Training & Learning Programs for Volunteer Community Health Workers Enrollment in the new courses is
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/04/29/jhu-nursing-coursera/
Johns Hopkins patient safety experts to co-instruct Coursera course | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins patient safety experts to co-instruct Coursera course By Hub staff report / Published April 29, 2013 Two patient safety experts from Johns Hopkins University will co-instruct a new massive open online course (MOOC), The Science of Safety in Healthcare, beginning in June. Cheryl Dennison-Himmelfarb from the School of Nursing and Peter Pronovost from the School of Medicine will explore topics in patient safety culture, patient-centered care, teamwork, and how to improve care. The course, which begins June 3 and runs through June 30, is free and space is unlimited. It is the first Coursera course for faculty from the schools of nursing and medicine. There are currently eight Coursera offerings from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and one from the Berman Institute of Bioethics. Dennison-Himmelfarb is an expert on improving cardiovascular care for high-risk, underserved populations. Her current research includes developing and testing an online
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/05/01/education-coursera/
JHU School of Education to offer free courses for teachers via Coursera | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU School of Education to offer free courses for teachers via Coursera By Hub staff report / Published May 1, 2013 The Johns Hopkins University School of Education and other top schools of education and professional development programs today announced that they will team up to offer free training and development courses for teachers around the world via the online education venture Coursera. The new courses, listed on Coursera's course directory under the category "Teacher Professional Development," will give teachers, parents, and those who teach in any context a broad range of learning topics, areas of expertise, and pedagogies. Initial courses will cover diverse subjects including content development, the common core curriculum, teaching through tinkering, character education, and implementing flipped and blended learning strategies. Other participating schools of education include the College of Education at the University of Washington; the Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia; and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/10/17/jeffries-digital-initiatives/
Jeffries named first vice provost for digital initiatives at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Hub staff report
Jeffries named first vice provost for digital initiatives at Johns Hopkins School of Nursing professor will oversee JHU's efforts to incorporate digital technology into education, online and in the classroom By Hub staff report / Published Oct 17, 2013 Pamela Jeffries, professor and associate dean for academic affairs at the Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing, has been named the university's first vice provost for digital initiatives, Provost Robert C. Lieberman announced in a message to faculty, staff, and students today. Image caption: Pamela Jeffries Jeffries, nationally known for her research and work developing simulations and online teaching and learning, will lead the university's efforts to effectively use digital technology in education, both online and in classrooms. "It's critically important for the university to have someone in academic leadership to provide direction and coordination for our efforts to adopt and deploy digital educational technologies," Lieberman said. "Pam Jeffries is the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/07/16/pam-jeffries-innovation/
Helping students learn through innovative instruction | Hub
Charles Limb
Helping students learn through innovative instruction Pam Jeffries, associate dean at School of Nursing, pioneered use of patient simulators for nursing students Image caption: Harvey, a $60,000 teaching tool at the School of Nursing's Simulation Lab, can mimic the sounds of 30 cardiac disease states at the touch of computer console input. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Charles Limb / Published July 16, 2012 This article is part of the Provost's Project on Innovation series Image caption: Pamela Jeffries, Associate Dean for Academic Affairs at the School of Nursing A teacher and mentor for more than three decades, School of Nursing Associate Dean Pamela Jeffries, Ph.D., has made a career, and a national reputation, of helping students learn better through innovative instruction. As an advocate of inspired teaching everywhere, and across all disciplines, Jeffries believes that enabling students to learn effectively is fundamentally a creative occupation. Through
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/01/24/university-teaching-101-coursera/
Hopkins creates free online course to equip PhD candidates with teaching skills | Hub
Hub staff report
Hopkins creates free online course to equip PhD candidates with teaching skills By Hub staff report / Published Jan 24, 2014 A significant number of PhD candidates will soon become the next generation of faculty members at the university level. And although many of them are experts in their respective fields, they might lack the skills necessary to successfully transition into an instructional position. To prepare these future instructors for the classroom, Johns Hopkins University will offer a free online course, University Teaching 101, designed to introduce the strategies and skills necessary to meet the demands of teaching at a university level. The Massive Open Online Course—MOOC, for short—will be offered through Coursera and is set to launch on March 17. "Not too long ago, it was believed that anyone who graduated from a doctoral program was capable of teaching," said Pamela R. Jeffries, the university's vice provost for digital
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/11/us-news-grad-program-rankings/
'U.S. News' ranks Johns Hopkins graduate programs among the nation's best | Hub
Hub staff report
'U.S. News' ranks Johns Hopkins graduate programs among the nation's best BME retains top spot, education moves up to No. 1; Medicine ranked 3rd By Hub staff report / Published March 11, 2014 Several Johns Hopkins University graduate education programs—including education, medicine, and biological sciences—ranked among the nation's best, according to the latest U.S. News & World Report's Best Graduate School rankings, released today. The School of Education was ranked first in the country, according to the magazine, up from the No. 2 position last year and from a tie for sixth in 2012. "We are elated that the hard work and exceptional talent of our students, faculty, and staff has propelled us to the No. 1 ranking of graduate schools of education by U.S. News & World Report," said David W. Andrews, dean of the School of Education. The university's School of Medicine remains third-ranked in the U.S. News
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/07/16/us-news-hospital-rankings
 Johns Hopkins Hospital reclaims top spot in U.S. News rankings of best hospitals | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins Hospital reclaims top spot in U.S. News rankings of best hospitals JHH has held top spot for 22 of 23 years; five specialty areas ranked No. 1 Image caption: Johns Hopkins Hospital Credit: Keith Weller / JHMI By Hub staff report / Published July 16, 2013 The Johns Hopkins Hospital has regained the No. 1 spot in the annual U.S. News & World Report rankings of the best hospitals in the nation, which were released today. Image caption:Johns Hopkins HospitalImage credit: Keith Weller / JHMI Johns Hopkins had held the top spot for 21 consecutive years, but dropped to No. 2 in last year's rankings, behind Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, before moving back up this year. "We're very pleased about that, because we had quite a story going," Ronald R. Peterson, president of Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System and executive vice president of Johns Hopkins Medicine,
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/health-care/
 Health care | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Health care Electrical Engineering Sparking hope for migraine relief Published April 29, 2024 Johns Hopkins electrical engineering students are developing a device targeting the root cause of chronic headaches 3 Questions Why the U.S. health system needs redesign Published March 8, 2024 Hopkins Nursing policy expert Vincent Guilamo-Ramos makes the case for a nurse-led approach to health care that focuses on prevention and equity Artificial intelligence Improving AI accuracy in medical settings Published Feb 20, 2024 Johns Hopkins and Columbia University computer scientists combat the inaccurate correlations that artificial intelligence learns from text data Health Care Finding solutions for Native Americans in need of end-of-life care Published Nov 30, 2022 Graduate students are finding business solutions to honor Native American culture and traditions during end-of-life care Q+A On the front lines of veteran health Published Nov 10, 2022 Johns Hopkins nursing expert Rita D'Aoust and her longtime research
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/johns-hopkins-hospital/
 Johns hopkins hospital | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Johns hopkins hospital Names+Narratives Trailblazing cardiac surgeon honored Published June 12, 2023 Johns Hopkins Medicine's first Black chief resident and first Black full professor, Watkins performed the world's first implantation of an automatic heart defibrillator in a human Angels and demons Published Fall 2022 A Johns Hopkins founding physician, William Stewart Halsted pioneered modern surgery as he waged a lifelong battle against drug addiction. One hundred years after his death, his legacy continues. / Johns Hopkins Magazine Angels and demons Published Sept 14, 2022 A Johns Hopkins founding physician, William Stewart Halsted pioneered modern surgery as he waged a lifelong battle against drug addiction. One hundred years after his death, his legacy continues. 'U.S. News' rankings Johns Hopkins Hospital ranked No. 5 nationally Published July 26, 2022 The hospital ranks No. 1 overall in Maryland and among nation's top 10 in 10 specialty areas Milestones Johns Hopkins Medicine
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/09/10/us-news-annual-rankings/
Johns Hopkins moves up to 12th in U.S. News rankings of best colleges | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins moves up to 12th in U.S. News rankings of best colleges JHU also recognized for socio-economic diversity, value, undergraduate research; biomedical engineering program again ranks No. 1 nationally By Hub staff report / Published Sept 10, 2013 The Johns Hopkins University is tied for 12th in the newest U.S. News & World Report "best colleges" rankings, up a notch from last year and the university's highest slot in 14 years. Johns Hopkins was also rated seventh in a ranking by high school guidance counselors, tied with four other schools, and tied for eighth in a "peer assessment" by university presidents, provosts and deans. Both lists are components of the overall "best colleges" rankings. The new ranking reflects an upward trend for Johns Hopkins, which ranked 15th among national universities in the fall of 2008 and since then has been listed 14th, tied for 13th, 13th alone (twice) and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/29/usnews-best-global-university-rankings/
Johns Hopkins 11th in first 'U.S. News' Best Global University rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins 11th in first 'U.S. News' Best Global University rankings Rankings based on academic research performance, global reputation By Hub staff report / Published Oct 29, 2014 Johns Hopkins University is the 11th best university in the world, according to the first ever Best Global University rankings published by U.S. News & World Report on Tuesday. The rankings use different criteria than those used for the annual "best colleges" list, on which Johns Hopkins ranked 12th last month. The new rankings include 500 universities in 49 countries. Sixteen of the top 20 universities are in the U.S., including Harvard, which tops the rankings. Institutions are ranked based on their academic research performance and their global and regional reputations. By contrast, the U.S. News "best colleges" list released in September puts more emphasis on undergraduate academic reputation, retention of students, and how selective a university is. More information about the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/01/times-high-education-world-university-rankings/
Johns Hopkins remains 15th out of 400 schools in World University Rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins remains 15th out of 400 schools in World University Rankings JHU also 7th in Clinical, Preclinical, and Health; 9th in Life Sciences Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Oct 1, 2014 For the second year in a row, Johns Hopkins University ranks 15th in the world among 400 research universities, according to a survey released today by London's Times Higher Education. Johns Hopkins also achieved the top possible score of 100 in THE's industry income category, which aims to capture a university's ability to help industry with innovations, inventions, and consultancy by looking at how much research income an institution earns relative to the size of its academic staff. Industry income is one of five components of the overall score on which the rankings are based. THE's World University Rankings are based on 13 performance indicators in five key areas: teaching,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/07/us-news-rankings-online-grad-programs/
3 Johns Hopkins online graduate programs ranked among nation's best | Hub
Hub staff report
3 Johns Hopkins online graduate programs ranked among nation's best By Hub staff report / Published Jan 7, 2015 Three Johns Hopkins online graduate programs are among the best in the nation, according to new rankings released today by U.S. News & World Report. JHU ranks No. 3 nationally among graduate nursing programs, up from No. 24 a year ago. Computer Information Technology (No. 5, up from No. 13) and Engineering (No. 12, up from No. 14) were also included in the publication's annual Best Online Programs rankings, which rank the nation's best online graduate programs in seven disciplines in addition to the best online bachelor's programs. "We are pleased that we've made such a tremendous jump," said Patricia M. Davidson, dean of the School of Nursing. "We've taken a thoughtful and strategic approach in this fast-moving learning space and will continue our commitment to provide our online students with
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/03/19/ncaa-d3-swimming-championships/
Two Johns Hopkins swimmers win national titles on first day of DIII championships | Hub
Hub staff report
Two Johns Hopkins swimmers win national titles on first day of DIII championships Bogdanovski repeats in 50 free; Greenhalgh sets record in 500 free By Hub staff report / Published March 19, 2015 Johns Hopkins swimmers captured two national titles on the first night of the Division III men's swimming championships in Shenandoah, Texas, on Wednesday, with senior Ana Bogdanovski repeating as champion in the 50-meter freestyle and sophomore Andrew Greenhalgh setting a national record in the 500 freestyle. Greenhalgh became the Blue Jays' first national champion in the 500 free since 1981, and his time of 4:20.60 set a Division III record. Greenhalgh's win was good for 20 points for JHU's men's team, which also got a third-place finish from sophomore Evan Holder in the 200 individual medley. The Blue Jays are in sixth place after the first day with 46 points. Kenyon is in first place with 109
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/03/20/ncaa-d3-swimming-day-two/
JHU's Bogdanovski claims 2nd national title at DIII swimming championships | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU's Bogdanovski claims 2nd national title at DIII swimming championships Senior repeats in 200 free for fourth career individual national title By Hub staff report / Published March 20, 2015 Johns Hopkins senior swimmer Ana Bogdanovski won her second national title in a many days Thursday at the Division III championship meet in Shenandoah, Texas, winning the 200-meter freestyle for the second consecutive year. Bogdanovski finished in 1:46.69 to win by eight-tenths of a second and claim her the fourth individual NCAA title of her career. A day earlier she won the 50 freestyle for the second year in a row, and she has also contributed to five relay wins at nationals. JHU's women's team sits in fifth place after two days of the NCAA DIII meet with 73 points, well behind first-place Emory (323.5). On the men's side, sophomore Evan Holder broke the school record in the 200 free
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/03/26/st-paul-project-groundbreaking/
Construction begins on mixed-use development project near JHU's Homewood campus | Hub
Hub staff report
Construction begins on mixed-use development project near JHU's Homewood campus 3200 St. Paul, slated to be completed by August 2016, will feature student housing, restaurants, retailers, including CVS pharmacy Credit: Design Collective By Hub staff report / Published March 26, 2015 Representatives from Johns Hopkins University, Armada Hoffler Properties, and Beatty Development Group will break ground today on the vacant lot at 3200 St. Paul Street, a mixed-use development located at the southwest intersection of St. Paul and 33rd streets in Charles Village, just east of the university's Homewood campus. Image credit: Design Collective The ceremonial groundbreaking will mark the official start of a construction project expected to be completed in August 2016. At the ceremony, representatives from Armada Hoffler and Beatty Development are expected to announce that CVS Pharmacy will be the building's anchor tenant. A 10,500-square-foot pharmacy is set to open in 2016 on the southeast corner of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/20/what-works-cities/
New Johns Hopkins center to promote data-driven local government | Hub
Kelly Brooks
New Johns Hopkins center to promote data-driven local government Center for Government Excellence, established with a grant from Bloomberg Philanthropies, is part of JHU's 21st Century Cities Initiative Image caption: Kathryn Edin (left) and Beth Blauer Credit: Marshall Clarke By Kelly Brooks / Published April 20, 2015 The Center for Government Excellence at Johns Hopkins, established with a grant from Bloomberg Philanthropies, aims to assist more than 100 U.S. cities in creating data infrastructures to transform the way their governments operate. The center is part of the university's 21st Century Cities Initiative, a university signature initiative that brings together city leaders and top researchers to confront the pressing needs of revitalizing cities throughout the country and abroad. "Our focus is on resilient cities both here and around the world. We want to study 21st-century possibilities and challenges, and to adopt 21st-century solutions," says Kathryn Edin, a sociologist in the Krieger
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/29/d-watkins-freddie-gray-commentary/
Commentary: Injustice that goes beyond the death of Freddie Gray | Hub
Hub staff report
Commentary: Injustice that goes beyond the death of Freddie Gray JHU alum D. Watkins addresses unrest in 'New York Times' op-ed By Hub staff report / Published April 29, 2015 D. Watkins, a Baltimore native and writer who earned a master's from the Johns Hopkins School of Education in 2011, tackles the uneasy relationship between the city's black community and its police force in an op-ed published in The New York Times today titled "In Baltimore, We're All Freddie Gray." Watkins, who was profiled in the Fall 2014 issue of Johns Hopkins Magazine, recounts a few of his own encounters with police in Baltimore and talks about the protests sparked by the April 19 death of Freddie Gray. "The young uprisers of Baltimore have been paying attention to the peaceful protests in Sanford, Fla., Ferguson, Mo., and New York, only to be let down by the end result, over and
http://hub.jhu.edu/magazine/2014/fall/d-watkins-baltimore-writer
Dwight Watkins, former drug dealer, forges a new identity: D. Watkins, author | Hub
Bret McCabe
Dwight Watkins, former drug dealer, forges a new identity: D. Watkins, author Credit: Jonathan Hanson By Bret McCabe / Published Fall 2014 This past May, writer Dwight Watkins sat in the midtown Manhattan offices of Grand Central Publishing waiting for the chance to make his pitch. He didn't have an appointment. He wasn't sure how much time he was going to get with the vice president of the paperback division—should he even get in to see her. All he knew was that he wanted a book deal for his memoir. And he understood that he would have to convince somebody to gamble on him. The 34-year-old Watkins, Ed '11 (MEd), had been in discussions with two publishers previously, but each time, no dice. Watkins recognizes that he's an unknown variable. In talking with publishers, he repeatedly hears a number of other books mentioned as comparisons: MK Asante's Buck, Ta-Nehisi Coates'
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/d-watkins-0/
 D. watkins | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles D. watkins Q+A D. Watkins writes Baltimore Published April 20, 2021 Author, editor, East Baltimore native, and School of Education alum talks about his evolution as a writer, learning to interview celebrities, and why he's probably not cool enough to get a shoe deal MSE Symposium D. Watkins on activism, race Published Oct 8, 2015 Baltimore-born author, JHU alum visits campus as part of MSE Symposium Q+A Writer D. Watkins talks reading, politics Published Sept 9, 2015 JHU alum's debut book, 'The Beast Side,' delivers an impassioned critique of racial inequality in America Commentary Bigger than Freddie Gray Published April 29, 2015 JHU alum D. Watkins addresses uneasy relationship between Baltimore's black community, police / The New York Times Writing his way Published Fall 2014 Writing about his journey from drug dealer to aspiring writer has made D. Watkins Internet infamous. / Johns Hopkins Magazine
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/29/daniels-message-baltimore-unrest/
Daniels: 'Resilience and optimism' will define Baltimore, not 'spasms of violence' | Hub

Daniels: 'Resilience and optimism' will define Baltimore, not 'spasms of violence' JHU president sends message in wake of day of unrest across city Published April 29, 2015 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels sent the message below to the university community on Tuesday, a day after violent protests and unrest erupted across Baltimore. Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels Dear Faculty, Students, and Staff: Those of us who call Baltimore home are deeply saddened by the violence that erupted across our city yesterday following the tragic death of Freddie Gray while in police custody. We condemn this violence and, in particular, its devastating effect on the neighborhoods where it occurred. Further, we join those who are endorsing the urgency of a full and independent investigation of the circumstances surrounding Mr. Gray's death. It is essential that all of our city's citizens have trust and confidence in professional and fair
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/28/university-closure-baltimore-riots/
Johns Hopkins suspends city activities a day after unrest erupts across Baltimore | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins suspends city activities a day after unrest erupts across Baltimore University monitoring situation, taking precautions to ensure safety of faculty, staff, students, officials say Image caption: Students join hands in prayer on the Keyser Quad at Johns Hopkins University's Homewood campus a day after unrest erupted across Baltimore. Credit: Terry Martinez / Dean of Students By Hub staff report / Published April 28, 2015 Johns Hopkins University canceled classes and postponed all events at its Baltimore City locations on Tuesday, a day after riots and unrest rippled across the city. The university continues to monitor the situation and will take precautions to ensure the safety of members of the JHU community, university leaders wrote in a message to faculty, staff, and students this afternoon. Those precautions the early closure of libraries and the rec center at the Homewood campus in North Baltimore and the suspension of some shuttle
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/30/lester-spence-commentary-daily-news/
Commentary: Why Baltimore was a time bomb, dangerously divided | Hub
Hub staff report
Commentary: Why Baltimore was a time bomb, dangerously divided Image caption: Protesters at the Baltimore Police Department's Western District building on Saturday, April 25. Credit: Veggies / Wikimedia Commons By Hub staff report / Published April 30, 2015 Lester Spence, an associate professor of political science and Africana studies at Johns Hopkins University and an expert on race and urban politics, authored an op-ed in Wednesday's New York Daily News in which he examined the underlying tensions in Baltimore that precipitated Monday's riotous rebellion. "Baltimore has pent-up energy and anger," Spence wrote. "The routine actions of the police combined with the derision and casual disdain expressed by many political officials made what happened almost predestined." Also see: Baltimore mayor under intense scrutiny following street violence (NPR) What is needed, he argues, are changes aimed at making police more accountable to the citizens they are supposed to protect and serve, and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/30/ta-nehisi-coates-race-forum/
In wake of Baltimore unrest, Ta-Nehisi Coates steers conversation to history of racial inequality, violence | Hub
Katie Pearce
In wake of Baltimore unrest, Ta-Nehisi Coates steers conversation to history of racial inequality, violence Acclaimed writer speaks at inaugural 'JHU Forum on Race in America' Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published April 30, 2015 The inaugural JHU Forum on Race in America featuring acclaimed writer and Baltimore native Ta-Nehisi Coates was planned months ago, organizers said, to launch a conversation at Johns Hopkins University about race and racism in our community and in our country. Image caption: Ta-Nehisi Coates Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Just days before the event, Baltimore erupted into riots following the funeral of Freddie Gray, the unrest beginning in the same neighborhood where Coates grew up. His mother, Coates wrote in The Atlantic earlier this week, was raised in the same West Baltimore housing project in which Gray was taken into police custody. With concerns about
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/01/connolly-black-culture-times/
Commentary: Blame biased policies and politics, not black culture | Hub
Hub staff report
Commentary: Blame biased policies and politics, not black culture By Hub staff report / Published May 1, 2015 Nathan Connolly, an assistant professor of history at Johns Hopkins University, writes about the economics behind the recent unrest in Baltimore in today's issue of The New York Times. In "Black Culture Is Not the Problem," Connolly asserts that "policy and politics" played a larger role in the events that unfolded earlier this week in Baltimore than did some shortcoming of black culture. From The Times: Specifically, the problem rests on the continued profitability of racism. Freddie Gray's exposure to lead paint as a child, his suspected participation in the drug trade, and the relative confinement of black unrest to black communities during this week's riot are all features of a city and a country that still segregate people along racial lines, to the financial enrichment of landlords, corner store merchants and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/07/faden-commentary-freddie-gray/
Commentary: Freddie Gray's life characterized by injustices | Hub
Ruth Faden
Commentary: Freddie Gray's life characterized by injustices By Ruth Faden / Published May 7, 2015 No justice, no peace. State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby's decision to issue warrants for six Baltimore city police officers in the homicide of Freddie Gray is an enormous first step towards the justice that demonstrators around the country are demanding. With any luck, this first step will lead to a second step and then to others, and ultimately to significant reforms of discriminatory, ethically unconscionable practices by police and the courts, nationwide. Image caption: Ruth Faden, director of the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics As important as it is, however, to ensure that our criminal justice system becomes more just, it is not enough. What is ultimately at stake is the injustice of our society, overall, and not only in our police wagons and our courts. We must acknowledge that, for people like Freddie Gray,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/11/21cc-rapid-research-baltimore/
Johns Hopkins' 21st Century Cities Initiative deploys researchers in wake of Baltimore unrest | Hub
Katie Pearce
Johns Hopkins' 21st Century Cities Initiative deploys researchers in wake of Baltimore unrest Faculty members launch eight projects investigating city's dynamics Image caption: In one of several research projects designed in response to the recent unrest in Baltimore, researchers will look at abandoned housing "to figure out how to stem the blight and create neighborhood conditions more conducive to well-being and health," said Kathryn Edin, director of JHU's 21st Century Cities Initiative. Credit: istock By Katie Pearce / Published May 11, 2015 In the thick of Baltimore's chaos two weeks ago, a group of Johns Hopkins University faculty members started emailing one another. "We looked around and said, 'Where's the Hopkins response to this?'" says Stephen Morgan, a professor of sociology and education. From that came a meeting of a "truly cross-campus set of people," says Morgan, brainstorming research projects that could help "understand what was going on, why it
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/21/commencement-2015-coverage-main/
Johns Hopkins University celebrates the Class of 2015 | Hub
Katie Pearce
Johns Hopkins University celebrates the Class of 2015 About 7,000 students claim degrees at universitywide commencement Video: David Schmelick, Len Turner, and Jim Trone By Katie Pearce / Published May 21, 2015 Addressing a soggy crowd of graduating Johns Hopkins University students this morning, Pixar co-founder Ed Catmull emphasized the necessity of failure as part of a creative life. He urged graduates to think of failure not as a "necessary evil," but as a "necessary consequence of doing something new—and you should always do something new." Catmull, a five-time Academy Award winner and president of both Pixar Animation Studios and Walt Disney Studios, delivered his commencement address against a backdrop of umbrellas and clear plastic ponchos at a chilly Homewood Field. The computer scientist spoke of his experiences in Silicon Valley, the lessons he learned while building Pixar and later merging with Disney, and his memories of working with Apple
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/21/commencement-2015-bailey
 Video and full text of remarks by Johns Hopkins senior class president Destiny Bailey | Hub
Hub staff report
Video and full text of remarks by Johns Hopkins senior class president Destiny Bailey Video: Deirdre Hammer and Jim Trone By Hub staff report / Published May 21, 2015 Remarks as prepared by Johns Hopkins University senior class president Destiny Bailey for the universitywide commencement ceremony on May 21, 2015. Image caption: Destiny Bailey Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Good morning everyone: family, friends, faculty, and staff. And most importantly, good morning to my classmates and fellow graduates. Leading up to this day, we've all asked ourselves, "Am I ready for the world?" The real question should be though, "Is the world ready for me?" Well, the world is not only ready for us. The world needs us. Now, sitting here today, "This is real," we keep telling ourselves, but many of us still don't believe it. Students, take a look around you. All of this is
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/commencement-2015/articles/
 Commencement 2015 | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Commencement 2015 Commencement 2015 'Seize this moment' Published May 21, 2015 Video Daniels tells Class of 2015 that Baltimore 'needs your ideas, your energy, and your optimism' Commencement 2015 Johns Hopkins celebrates the Class of 2015 Published May 21, 2015 Video Degrees were conferred on more than 7,000 students at the universitywide commencement on Homewood Field Commencement 2015 'The world needs us' Published May 21, 2015 Video Full text of remarks by Johns Hopkins senior class president Destiny Bailey Commencement 2015 8 receive honorary degrees Published May 21, 2015 Video Longtime Maryland congressman, acclaimed pianist, leader in the fight against infectious diseases among recipients Commencement 2015 Photos: Graduation day at Hopkins Published May 21, 2015 Photos Members of the Class of 2015 reflect, reminisce on Hopkins memories Commencement 2015 Failure is key to creativity, Catmull tells graduates Published May 20, 2015 Video Pixar president, co-founder addresses Class of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/18/commencement-2015-storify/
Complete coverage of commencement week at Johns Hopkins | Hub

Complete coverage of commencement week at Johns Hopkins A collection of sentiments, comments, pictures, and other digitalia related to our Class of 2015 as their big day approaches Published May 18, 2015 [View the story "Johns Hopkins Commencement 2015 - #JHU2015!" on Storify] Posted in University News Tagged commencement 2015 Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr You might also like Trending
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/20/athletes-special-graduation/
13 Johns Hopkins senior athletes receive degrees early in special ceremony | Hub
Hub staff report
13 Johns Hopkins senior athletes receive degrees early in special ceremony 10 members of men's lacrosse team, three track athletes are preparing for NCAA competitions this weekend Image caption: Ten members of JHU's Final Four-bound men's lacrosse team received their diplomas in a special ceremony on Tuesday afternoon. Credit: James VanRensselaer / Homewood Photography By Hub staff report / Published May 20, 2015 Thirteen Johns Hopkins University senior athletes, including 10 members of the Final Four-bound Hopkins men's lacrosse team, received their diplomas during a special ceremony Tuesday afternoon, two days earlier than the rest of the Class of 2015. Image caption: JHU distance runner Ashley Murphy is congratulated by Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels after receiving her diploma. Image credit: James VanRensselaer / Homewood Photography Scheduling conflicts would have prevented the athletes from participating in the universitywide commencement ceremony Thursday morning at Homewood Field. The men's lacrosse
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/20/commencement-2015-catmull/
Video: Pixar president, co-founder Ed Catmull speaks at Johns Hopkins graduation | Hub
Hub staff report
Video: Pixar president, co-founder Ed Catmull speaks at Johns Hopkins graduation Video: Deirdre Hammer and Jim Trone By Hub staff report / Published May 20, 2015 Ed Catmull, a co-founder of Pixar Animation Studios, addressed the Class of 2015 at Johns Hopkins University's commencement today, urging the new graduates to broaden their view of creativity by accepting that failure is necessary. Image caption: Ed Catmull Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University "Creativity is the process by which we solve problems, whether they're a story, on the job, a relationship with partners, or societal problems," Catmull said. Catmull said he's often asked, "How do you become more creative?" At Pixar, questioning the barriers to creativity—failures and mistakes—fuels the magic his team produces, he said. The Academy Award-winning movie Up, for example, was born as a "castle floating in the sky." The final version bore almost no resemblance to the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/20/commencement-advice-from-hopkins-seniors/
Parting advice from members of the Johns Hopkins Class of 2015 | Hub
Rachel Chism
Parting advice from members of the Johns Hopkins Class of 2015 25 dos (and don'ts) from Hopkins seniors who've been there By Rachel Chism / Published May 20, 2015 The commencement countdown comes to a close Thursday, when the Class of 2015 will take a final bow during the universitywide ceremony at Homewood Field. The occasion calls for reflection, as nostalgic seniors think back on what they might have done differently and what matters most after everything is said and done. With that in mind, we asked 25 soon-to-be alums to share some words of wisdom for future Hopkins students based on what they've learned in their four years here. This is what they told us. Tara Lawrence Hometown: New York City, N.Y. Majors: Creative Writing and Political Science "Everyone puts so much pressure on the fact that these years are going to be the best of your life. They're
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/20/msee-see-ya-later-party-in-photos/
Eisenhower Library hosts farewell cocktail party for Johns Hopkins seniors  | Hub
Hub staff report
Eisenhower Library hosts farewell cocktail party for Johns Hopkins seniors By Hub staff report / Published May 20, 2015 Graduating seniors gathered Tuesday night at the MSEE-YA Later party to celebrate with classmates and to bid farewell to the Eisenhower Library and Brody Learning Commons, where many waking (and a few sleeping) hours were spent over the course of their Hopkins careers. Now in its seventh year, the party is a highlight of senior week. Posted in Student Life Tagged milton s. eisenhower library, commencement 2015 Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr You might also like Trending
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/21/commencement-2015-bailey/
Video and full text of remarks by Johns Hopkins senior class president Destiny Bailey | Hub
Hub staff report
Video and full text of remarks by Johns Hopkins senior class president Destiny Bailey Video: Deirdre Hammer and Jim Trone By Hub staff report / Published May 21, 2015 Remarks as prepared by Johns Hopkins University senior class president Destiny Bailey for the universitywide commencement ceremony on May 21, 2015. Image caption: Destiny Bailey Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Good morning everyone: family, friends, faculty, and staff. And most importantly, good morning to my classmates and fellow graduates. Leading up to this day, we've all asked ourselves, "Am I ready for the world?" The real question should be though, "Is the world ready for me?" Well, the world is not only ready for us. The world needs us. Now, sitting here today, "This is real," we keep telling ourselves, but many of us still don't believe it. Students, take a look around you. All of this is
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/21/commencement-2015-cummings/
Video of remarks by Rep. Elijah Cummings at Johns Hopkins commencement | Hub
Hub staff report
Video of remarks by Rep. Elijah Cummings at Johns Hopkins commencement Video: Deirdre Hammer and Jim Trone By Hub staff report / Published May 21, 2015 Elijah Cummings, a longtime member of the U.S. House of Representatives who was re-elected in 2014 to serve a 10th term representing Maryland's 7th District, delivered brief remarks during Johns Hopkins University's commencement ceremony today at Homewood Field. Cummings, a Baltimore native, was one of eight people to receive honorary degrees during the ceremony. "You must be the agents of change, for you have been blessed with an awesome education," Cummings said. "You are the ones that can guide us the rest of the way. I've often said that our children are the living messages we send to a future we will never see. You, you, and you are our messengers." Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/21/commencement-2015-honorary-degrees
 Johns Hopkins confers eight honorary degrees at commencement ceremony | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins confers eight honorary degrees at commencement ceremony Video: Len Turner and David Schmelick By Hub staff report / Published May 21, 2015 A longtime Maryland congressman, an acclaimed pianist, and a leader in the fight against infectious diseases were among eight distinguished achievers to receive Johns Hopkins University honorary degrees at the universitywide commencement ceremony at Homewood Field on Thursday. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University This year's honorary degree recipients were: Marin Alsop, music director of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, and the first woman to lead a major U.S. orchestra. Her arrival in Baltimore in 2007 sparked greater collaboration between the BSO and the university's Peabody Conservatory, where she is a Distinguished Visiting Artist. Ed Catmull, this year's commencement speaker and co-founder of Pixar Animation and the president of Walt Disney and Pixar Animation Studios. His efforts to bring together moviemaking and computer science led
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/21/commencement-2015-daniels/
Video and full text of President Daniels' remarks at JHU's 2015 commencement | Hub
Hub staff report
Video and full text of President Daniels' remarks at JHU's 2015 commencement Video: Deirdre Hammer and Jim Trone By Hub staff report / Published May 21, 2015 Remarks as prepared for Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels for the universitywide commencement ceremony on May 21, 2015. Image caption: Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels Image credit: James VanRensselaer / Homewood Photography To our honorary degree recipients, alumni, and trustees … to our faculty and staff, to our parents, family members and friends … and most especially to our graduates … welcome to the Johns Hopkins University Commencement for the great Class of 2015! Today, I want to talk about stories—yours and ours. Each of us sees ourselves—not surprisingly—as the protagonist of our story. So it's natural to assume your stories begin and end with you. At Hopkins, you experienced some seismic shifts. Literally. You entered the university during
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/21/commencement-2015-honorary-degrees/
Johns Hopkins confers eight honorary degrees at commencement ceremony | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins confers eight honorary degrees at commencement ceremony Video: Len Turner and David Schmelick By Hub staff report / Published May 21, 2015 A longtime Maryland congressman, an acclaimed pianist, and a leader in the fight against infectious diseases were among eight distinguished achievers to receive Johns Hopkins University honorary degrees at the universitywide commencement ceremony at Homewood Field on Thursday. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University This year's honorary degree recipients were: Marin Alsop, music director of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, and the first woman to lead a major U.S. orchestra. Her arrival in Baltimore in 2007 sparked greater collaboration between the BSO and the university's Peabody Conservatory, where she is a Distinguished Visiting Artist. Ed Catmull, this year's commencement speaker and co-founder of Pixar Animation and the president of Walt Disney and Pixar Animation Studios. His efforts to bring together moviemaking and computer science led
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/21/commencement-2015-photos/
Photos: Johns Hopkins Commencement 2015 | Hub
Rachel Chism
Photos: Johns Hopkins Commencement 2015 Members of the Class of 2015 reflect, reminisce on Hopkins memories By Rachel Chism / Published May 21, 2015 "I am very excited. I'm anxious. Most of all I think I'm relieved that it's finally over," said Dillon Ward as he wedged himself between fellow neuroscience majors. Sporting a Johns Hopkins emblazoned poncho over commencement regalia in preparation for the rainy procession to Homewood Field, Ward finally, decisively said: "I'm excited, mostly excited!" Chatter lingered throughout Remsen Hall as the soon-to-be Johns Hopkins University graduates took their numbered cards and continued to file in line, laughing, some admittedly too tired to function after a hectic senior week, a remarkable memory for many. But what was the hardest part of saying goodbye? All agreed: the people they'd met along the way. "The professors in our department are going to compare other years to our year in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/15/how-low-income-dads-provide/
Many 'deadbeat dads' support children through gifts, not cash, study shows | Hub
Jill Rosen
Many 'deadbeat dads' support children through gifts, not cash, study shows By Jill Rosen / Published June 15, 2015 Low-income fathers who might be labeled "deadbeat dads" often spend as much on their children as parents in formal child-support arrangements, but they choose to give goods like food and clothing rather than cash, a Johns Hopkins-led study found. In the first examination of the magnitude of in-kind child support, published this month in the Journal of Marriage and Family, the team found many disadvantaged noncustodial fathers spend an average of $60 a month on in-kind provisions, while dads paying formal child support spend about $38 a month. Men who were the most disadvantaged tended to give a higher proportion of their support in gifts, the study found. "The most disadvantaged dads end up looking like they're completely distanced from their kids but they're actually giving quite a lot," said co-author
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/29/community-impact-fifth-anniversary/
Prosecutor Marilyn Mosby to speak to JHU students taking part in Baltimore internships program | Hub
Katie Pearce
Prosecutor Marilyn Mosby to speak to JHU students taking part in Baltimore internships program Community Impact Internships Program marks its fifth year this summer Image caption: Fifty Johns Hopkins students are working with Baltimore nonprofits and government agencies this summer as part of the Community Impact Internships Program, which is in its fifth year. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published June 29, 2015 The Community Impact Internships Program at Johns Hopkins University has traditionally pulled in Baltimore heavyweights as speakers. Past guests have included writers (and JHU graduates) Wes Moore and D. Watkins, who carved out their reputations on Baltimore-focused work. This summer, the program has secured Baltimore State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby, the young prosecutor who has garnered national attention for bringing charges against six police officers involved in Freddie Gray's arrest. Mosby will speak at the program's midpoint event Tuesday evening on JHU's
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/30/hopkins-commencement-move/
Johns Hopkins to move graduation ceremony to off-campus indoor venue | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins to move graduation ceremony to off-campus indoor venue Universitywide event planned for May 18, 2016, at Royal Farms Arena Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published June 30, 2015 To ensure commencement is enjoyable and memorable for all participants, Johns Hopkins University leaders are moving the annual celebration from Homewood Field to a climate-controlled venue that still allows graduates to invite as many guests as they would like. Starting with the 2016 ceremony on May 18 at 4 p.m., the universitywide commencement will be held at Baltimore's Royal Farms Arena, President Ronald J. Daniels and Provost Robert C. Lieberman announced in a message to the university community today. Several divisional ceremonies will be held at the arena in 2016 as well. "Johns Hopkins' annual commencement ceremony stands as one of the highlights of our academic year, a chance to honor and celebrate
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/30/johns-hopkins-online-applied-biomedical-engineering-degree/
Johns Hopkins offers online master's degree in applied biomedical engineering | Hub
Alyssa Vetro
Johns Hopkins offers online master's degree in applied biomedical engineering Program offered through JHU's Engineering for Professionals By Alyssa Vetro / Published June 30, 2015 Johns Hopkins Engineering for Professionals, a division of the JHU's Whiting School of Engineering that administers part-time and online graduate programs, has announced that students can now complete its Applied Biomedical Engineering program online. "The online program is identical to the face-to-face program, from the modern courses it offers, to the expert Johns Hopkins instructors who teach them," said Eileen Haase, chair of the Applied Biomedical Engineering program at Engineering for Professionals. "We've simply added another way for our students, who are busy working professionals, to complete their degree." To obtain the Master of Science in Applied Biomedical Engineering, students must complete 10 courses within a five-year period. They can choose all online courses, all on-site courses, or a combination of both online and on-site
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/22/wildfires-organization-management/
Organizations can learn a thing or two from firefighters about coping with unpredictable situations | Hub
Patrick Ercolano
Organizations can learn a thing or two from firefighters about coping with unpredictable situations Johns Hopkins researcher co-authors paper on two-phase process for crisis management By Patrick Ercolano / Published July 22, 2015 As continued drought and unusually high temperatures raise alarm over the severity of this year's wildfire season in the Western United States, a Johns Hopkins University researcher's study of wildland firefighting has uncovered lessons in performing under uncertainty that should benefit workers in a variety of contexts. Writing in the June 2015 issue of the Journal of Contingencies and Crisis Management, Kathleen Sutcliffe, a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins, and her co-authors noted high performance in firefighting organizations that followed a two-phase process of "anomalizing" and "proactive leader sensemaking." The process—which can be useful whether the setting is a blazing forest or a steel-and-glass corporate tower—works this way: Frontline workers in dynamic, unpredictable situations must constantly
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/12/cepar-baltimore-unrest-review/
Johns Hopkins researchers to study Baltimore's response to April unrest | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins researchers to study Baltimore's response to April unrest CEPAR to receive $50,000 from city to conduct 'after-action review' By Hub staff report / Published Aug 12, 2015 Johns Hopkins' Office of Critical Event Preparedness and Response, the command center and clearinghouse for enterprisewide planning and response to critical events, has been asked to evaluate how Baltimore City agencies responded to the unrest in the city in April. Image caption: Baltimore police officers in riot gear form a line to push back protesters and media on April 28, 2015. Image credit: Victoria Macchi/VOA News The city's Board of Estimates today approved $50,000 for Johns Hopkins researchers to conduct an "after-action review" of the response to the looting and arson that took place after the April 27 funeral for Freddie Gray, a West Baltimore man who was injured in police custody and later died, The Baltimore Sun reported today. The
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/17/baltimore-day-orientation-2015/
Charm City crash course: Orientation at Johns Hopkins includes full day devoted to seeing, learning about Baltimore | Hub
Katie Pearce
Charm City crash course: Orientation at Johns Hopkins includes full day devoted to seeing, learning about Baltimore By Katie Pearce / Published Aug 17, 2015 Helping new Johns Hopkins students get to know the Homewood campus is one goal of Orientation for undergraduates, which kicks off later this week. But another equally important goal is to help them move beyond it. "Baltimore Day," scheduled for Sunday, is designed to help the more than 1,300 first-year JHU students get better acquainted with the city where they'll spend much of the next few years—its culture, its history, its neighborhoods. And its crab cakes. Part of that process began before students arrived in Baltimore. Over the summer, incoming students were asked to read The Beautiful Struggle by Ta-Nehisi Coates, the West Baltimore native's memoir of growing up in the city as a young black man. New students will discuss the book in small
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/03/27/johns-hopkins-class-of-2019/
More than 3,000 from record applicant pool admitted to JHU's Class of 2019  | Hub
Jill Rosen
More than 3,000 from record applicant pool admitted to JHU's Class of 2019 Award-winning documentarians, patent holders, and published authors among incoming class By Jill Rosen / Published March 27, 2015 The Johns Hopkins University has admitted 2,525 students to complete the Class of 2019, selected from a record applicant pool of 24,717. These students joined 540 future Blue Jays who had already enrolled at the university under the Early Decision admission plan. Image caption: Welcome packets for the more than 2,500 regular decision applicants who have been admitted The class not only breaks university records academically, but it is the most diverse class Johns Hopkins has ever admitted. Nearly 33 percent of the class identifies as underrepresented minorities, and the students come from all 50 states and 62 countries. The 3,065 students admitted to the Class of 2019 were selected from the strongest applicant pool the university has ever
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/12/early-decision-class-of-2019
 Johns Hopkins welcomes first members of its Class of 2019 | Hub
Jill Rosen
Johns Hopkins welcomes first members of its Class of 2019 539 admitted in university's most competitive early decision cycle By Jill Rosen / Published Dec 12, 2014 A record number of high school students applied early decision to the Johns Hopkins University this fall, identifying it as their top choice and committing to attend if admitted. The 1,865 applicants represent a 17 percent increase from last year's early decision pool, which had already seen a 10 percent increase from the prior year. This group of applicants also represents the most academically competitive early decision applicant pool in Johns Hopkins' history, with 91 percent in the top 10 percent of their graduating classes. Total applications received: 1,865 Total students admitted: 539 53 percent male, 47 percent female Whiting School of Engineering: 32 percent of admitted class Krieger School of Arts and Sciences: 68 percent of admitted class 41 states and 18
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/class-2019/articles/
 Class of 2019 | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Class of 2019 Commencement 2019 Friends reflect, reminisce before parting ways Published May 23, 2019 Seniors Maggie Vitale, Diego Berrios, Leon Frajmund, and Nehali Vishwanath say the distance that will soon separate them won't change the bonds they've formed or the memories they've made in their four years at Hopkins #JHU2019 Cheers to you, Class of 2019! Published May 23, 2019 Soon-to-be Johns Hopkins graduates celebrated at annual Senior Toast Commencement 2019 Your guide to graduation Published May 13, 2019 An overview of the universitywide Commencement ceremony May 23 and how to celebrate the Class of 2019 Foreign language Fellowship fosters cross-divisional exchange Published May 9, 2019 Graduating senior Eli Levine, who studied Persian at SAIS, was among the first students to participate in the Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowship Garden party Sophomore spring soirée Published April 10, 2017 Photos JHU Class of 2019 comes together for
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/college-admissions/articles/
 College admissions | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles College admissions Race in admissions President Daniels responds to SCOTUS decision Published June 29, 2023 University affirms commitment to diversity in wake of ruling that race conscious admissions policies violate federal law K-12 education When school feels 'like prison,' test scores, college attendance drop Published Sept 21, 2022 Students at high schools with prominent security measures have lower math scores, are less likely to attend college and are suspended more compared to students in schools with less surveillance, finds a new Johns Hopkins University study. Center for Talented Youth From the top of their classes to top colleges Published April 4, 2019 CTY Scholars Program helps prepare low-income students for success at some of the nation's top colleges—including Hopkins Student service Applying to college 101 Published April 15, 2016 Alpha Phi Omega fraternity aims to make college admissions process less intimidating for city students Commentary Lotto for learning?
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/office-admissions/articles/
 Office of admissions | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Office of admissions Admissions Hopkins brings Baltimore-area students to campus Published March 2, 2020 Excel Youth Conference offers insights into application process, financial aid opportunities at Johns Hopkins and beyond #JHU2024 Way to go, new Jays! Published Dec 13, 2019 Johns Hopkins welcomes the first members of the Class of 2024 as 682 students from a record applicant pool are offered early admissions Direct matriculation Going places Published Oct 6, 2016 New programs in international studies, global health give select students an opportunity to combine undergraduate, graduate studies Baltimore Scholars Program revamped Published March 24, 2016 Changes include greater financial commitment, focus on students with significant financial need #JHU2020 Welcome new Blue Jays Published March 18, 2016 More than 3,000 admitted to JHU's Class of 2020 Fresh approach to undergraduate admissions Published Sept 28, 2015 JHU joins group of more than 80 schools aiming to make it easier
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/20/sat-changes-a-step-forward/
Early indications suggest SAT changes are a step in the right direction | Hub
Hub staff report
Early indications suggest SAT changes are a step in the right direction With forthcoming revision, College Board aims to level playing field for students from low-income families By Hub staff report / Published March 20, 2014 S. A. T. As many people who have been to college will tell you, these are three of the most anxiety-inducing letters of the English alphabet. Administered by the College Board, a century-old "not-for-profit that connects students to college success and opportunity," the Scholastic Assessment Test is designed to evaluate students' college readiness. And, as was announced earlier this month, it's about to undergo a major revision. The SAT is currently made up of several sections, including critical reading, mathematics, and writing. From start to finish, including breaks, the SAT takes about four and a half hours to sit through. Because of the rigid timing and the mental gymnastics some of the problems require—for
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/02/26/cty-director-tackles-undermatching/
CTY director makes case for new perspective on higher ed 'undermatching' | Hub
Hub staff report
CTY director makes case for new perspective on higher ed 'undermatching' Hansen: Finding a good fit should be priority from preK forward By Hub staff report / Published Feb 26, 2014 The concept of "undermatching"—broadly, the idea that low-income students often end up at colleges that are beneath them, academically speaking—has become a hot topic in education of late. Image caption: Elaine Tuttle Hansen Image credit: CADE MARTIN There is concern that, for a variety of reasons, these students aren't aiming as high as they should be. And as researchers are wont to do when they see the phenomenon of privilege at work, many are studying undermatching to find out how best to address it. Some academics think "undermatching is overrated," and accuse undermatching researchers of being "overconfident" and overstating their conclusions. Elaine Tuttle Hansen, executive director for the Johns Hopkins Center for Talented Youth, has a different perspective, which
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/12/06/low-income-students-at-hopkins/
Senior biophysics major takes unlikely path to Johns Hopkins | Hub
Hub staff report
Senior biophysics major takes unlikely path to Johns Hopkins Students from low-income families are often steered away from elite universities, Stanford economics professor says By Hub staff report / Published Dec 6, 2013 That time when your high school guidance counselor tells you to aim lower … Image caption: Johns Hopkins senior George Alvarez Image credit: Amy Scott / Marketplace George Alvarez remembers that. Alvarez is currently a senior at Johns Hopkins University—but if he had listened to his counselor's advice, he'd still be back home in Long Island. Alvarez recently talked with Marketplace about his unique "path to an elite university." He was born to two immigrants from El Salvador: his mother is a housekeeper, his father is a retired mechanic. Alvarez knew he wanted to be a doctor, but figured he'd have to settle for a low-cost college close to home. His History teacher suggested he consider Johns
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/28/johns-hopkins-class-of-2018/
More than 3,500 from record applicant pool admitted to JHU Class of 2018 | Hub
Hub staff report
More than 3,500 from record applicant pool admitted to JHU Class of 2018 Nearly 24,000 students applied for class, up more than 16% from 2013 By Hub staff report / Published March 28, 2014 For the 11th year in a row, a record-breaking number of people applied for a spot in the incoming freshman class at Johns Hopkins University. Image caption: Office of Admissions staff prepare welcome packets for the more than 3,000 regular decision applicants who have been admitted The 22,281 applicants in the regular decision pool are the most in the school's history, 16.2 percent more than applied last year. "It really speaks to the growing appeal of the Johns Hopkins undergraduate experience," said Ellen Kim, director of student admissions. "The chance to study at an institution with a flexible curriculum and a spirit of research at its core has grown in popularity for high-achieving students who are
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/12/13/johns-hopkins-arly-decision-class-of-2018
 Johns Hopkins selects early decision students from record applicant pool  | Hub
Jill Rosen
Johns Hopkins selects early decision students from record applicant pool 526 applicants offered early admission into JHU Class of 2018 By Jill Rosen / Published Dec 13, 2013 The Johns Hopkins University is offering early admission to 526 students from 39 U.S. states and 24 countries into its Class of 2018. The university chose them from a record 1,595 early decision applicants—up 11 percent over last year. Announcements were made at 3 p.m. today to those who indicated Johns Hopkins as their first choice school by applying early decision. Applicants can find more information by logging in to mydecision.jhu.edu. Eighty percent of the admitted students are in the top 10 percent of their high school class. The middle 50th percentile of the admitted students' test scores range from 1380 to 1510 on the SAT and 31 to 34 on the ACT. This class of early decision students represents the strongest
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/12/13/johns-hopkins-arly-decision-class-of-2018/
Johns Hopkins selects early decision students from record applicant pool  | Hub
Jill Rosen
Johns Hopkins selects early decision students from record applicant pool 526 applicants offered early admission into JHU Class of 2018 By Jill Rosen / Published Dec 13, 2013 The Johns Hopkins University is offering early admission to 526 students from 39 U.S. states and 24 countries into its Class of 2018. The university chose them from a record 1,595 early decision applicants—up 11 percent over last year. Announcements were made at 3 p.m. today to those who indicated Johns Hopkins as their first choice school by applying early decision. Applicants can find more information by logging in to mydecision.jhu.edu. Eighty percent of the admitted students are in the top 10 percent of their high school class. The middle 50th percentile of the admitted students' test scores range from 1380 to 1510 on the SAT and 31 to 34 on the ACT. This class of early decision students represents the strongest
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/12/early-decision-class-of-2019/
Johns Hopkins welcomes first members of its Class of 2019 | Hub
Jill Rosen
Johns Hopkins welcomes first members of its Class of 2019 539 admitted in university's most competitive early decision cycle By Jill Rosen / Published Dec 12, 2014 A record number of high school students applied early decision to the Johns Hopkins University this fall, identifying it as their top choice and committing to attend if admitted. The 1,865 applicants represent a 17 percent increase from last year's early decision pool, which had already seen a 10 percent increase from the prior year. This group of applicants also represents the most academically competitive early decision applicant pool in Johns Hopkins' history, with 91 percent in the top 10 percent of their graduating classes. Total applications received: 1,865 Total students admitted: 539 53 percent male, 47 percent female Whiting School of Engineering: 32 percent of admitted class Krieger School of Arts and Sciences: 68 percent of admitted class 41 states and 18
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/19/computational-medicine-minor/
Johns Hopkins launches nation's first undergraduate minor in computational medicine | Hub
Mary Beth Regan
Johns Hopkins launches nation's first undergraduate minor in computational medicine Field focuses on quantitative approaches to understanding, diagnosing, and treating disease By Mary Beth Regan / Published Aug 19, 2015 The Johns Hopkins Institute for Computational Medicine, acclaimed worldwide for its groundbreaking research, has launched the nation's first undergraduate minor in the emerging field of computational medicine. The minor course of study exposes students to the fundamentals of computational medicine—a discipline devoted to the development of quantitative approaches to understanding the mechanisms, diagnosis, and treatment of human disease. A core faculty of 19 researchers, who hold primary and joint appointments in multiple departments and schools, will act as advisors to students. Courses will guide students through recent advances in modeling and computing technologies that have opened the door to new possibilities for identifying, analyzing, and treating diseases. The program, which is open to any Johns Hopkins undergraduate, is expected to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/20/hearing-their-voices-research/
Hearing their voices: Johns Hopkins researchers tune in to what young Baltimore residents have to say | Hub
Katie Pearce
Hearing their voices: Johns Hopkins researchers tune in to what young Baltimore residents have to say Project gives city youth a chance to share their perspectives in wake of Freddie Gray's death and the resulting protests, unrest Image caption: Members of a Johns Hopkins research team help out at a food outreach event at Gethsemane Baptist Church in West Baltimore's Penn North neighborhood in July. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Aug 20, 2015 The conversation starts with a knock on the door, or a greeting at a public spot like a basketball court. After introductions, the first line of questioning is, "What's your life story?" Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University What the "Hearing Their Voices" project is finding is that people want to talk. The free-ranging conversations researchers are having with young residents around Baltimore usually last about two hours.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/24/johns-hopkins-class-of-2019-move-in-day/
More than 1,300 new Blue Jays arrive at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Hub staff report
More than 1,300 new Blue Jays arrive at Johns Hopkins First-year students decorate their dorm rooms, attend spirited celebrations, explore their new city By Hub staff report / Published Aug 24, 2015 This weekend, 1,310 members of the Johns Hopkins Class of 2019 arrived on the Homewood campus, to the sounds of applause and whistles as a crew of First Year Mentors and move-in volunteers cheered their arrival. The new Blue Jays, chosen from an applicant pool of nearly 25,000, had a busy weekend ahead of them with dorms to decorate, spirited celebrations to attend, and a new city to explore. As cars packed with carefully-labeled first-year necessities filed to the front of the freshman residences, First Year Mentors quickly whisked away the new students and escorted them to their new home away from home. A group of move-in volunteers were on hand to assist, lugging everything from life-size teddy
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/20/class-of-2019-facts/
A quick look at the Johns Hopkins University Class of 2019 | Hub
Hub staff report
A quick look at the Johns Hopkins University Class of 2019 By Hub staff report / Published Aug 20, 2015 Members of the Johns Hopkins University Class of 2019—more than 1,300 of them—will begin arriving on campus later this week. Who are they? Here's a quick look at JHU's newest undergrads. Posted in Student Life Tagged class of 2019 Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr You might also like Trending
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/26/class-of-2019-photo/
All together now: Johns Hopkins Class of 2019 poses for official class photo  | Hub
Hub staff report
All together now: Johns Hopkins Class of 2019 poses for official class photo By Hub staff report / Published Aug 26, 2015 On the last day of undergraduate student Orientation at Johns Hopkins University, all 1,310 new Blue Jays assembled side by side on Keyser Quad as a director in the Gilman Hall clock tower shouted commands from a loudspeaker. "Lower part of the nine, can you step a little bit forward?" he asked. The group inched forward, bound by neon pink tape that outlined the formation. After a few adjustments and some last-minute additions, the first-year students created a perfect, life-size "JHU 19" for their official class photo, a Johns Hopkins tradition. "GO HOP!" the students cheered in unison as the camera snapped the photo. When it came time to take a silly shot, hats were raised and thrown. Students piled on one another. "There were so many familiar
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/26/ronnie-greene-shots-on-bridge-katrina/
'Shots on the Bridge' explores deadly police shooting in wake of Hurricane Katrina | Hub
Bret McCabe
'Shots on the Bridge' explores deadly police shooting in wake of Hurricane Katrina Writer, Johns Hopkins graduate Ronnie Greene discusses his latest book, how it came together, and the police corruption at the center of his story Image caption: The Danziger Bridge in New Orleans Credit: Billy Metcalf Photography / Flickr By Bret McCabe / Published Aug 26, 2015 Ten years after Hurricane Katrina barreled into the Gulf Coast region, New Orleans is still contending with its aftermath, and the nation is still wrestling with the economic, political, and racial disparities in American cities that the disaster forced into light. Whatever the issue—whether crises in housing or the unequal distribution of redevelopment investment—the inconvenient fact is that to this day, African-Americans have endured the brunt of Katrina's lasting turmoil, so much so that the storm and its disastrous aftermath can be viewed as the catalyst for a new wave of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/27/centre-theater-opening-film-media-studies/
Lights, camera, action: Johns Hopkins film program expands to new space | Hub
Bret McCabe
Lights, camera, action: Johns Hopkins film program expands to new space JHU/MICA Film Center in Baltimore's Station North Arts and Entertainment District houses state-of-the-art production facilities By Bret McCabe / Published Aug 27, 2015 When the fall semester begins today, students taking classes in the Johns Hopkins Program in Film and Media Studies will be the first to make use of the university's brand new, state-of-the-art production facilities housed in the historic Centre Theatre. The JHU/MICA Film Center, part of the university's growing presence in Baltimore's Station North Arts and Entertainment District, greatly expands the resources offered by the program and its partnership with MICA's Film and Video program. JHU's Film and Media Studies Program—which is part of the Krieger School of Arts & Sciences but attracts students from the Johns Hopkins Peabody Institute who are interested in sound, audio, and film score courses—will also maintain a presence on the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/27/class-of-2019-convocation/
New Johns Hopkins students receive official welcome, well-wishes at annual convocation event | Hub
Hub staff report
New Johns Hopkins students receive official welcome, well-wishes at annual convocation event President Daniels likens journeys of members of Class of 2019 to that of New Horizons spacecraft, which flew past Pluto last month By Hub staff report / Published Aug 27, 2015 Orientation activities came to a close Wednesday night as members of the Johns Hopkins University Class of 2019 received an official induction into the Blue Jay community at freshman convocation. The new students ditched their Hopkins gear in favor of cocktail dresses and ties as JHU President Ronald J. Daniels and other university leaders welcomed the incoming class with celebratory remarks and words of wisdom. Daniels likened the journey of the new students to that of New Horizons, the spacecraft built and operated by the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory that recorded the first-ever close-up photos of Pluto last month. Members of the New Horizons team, the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/01/cardin-discussion-iran-nuclear-deal/
Sen. Cardin visits Johns Hopkins to discuss Iran nuclear deal with students | Hub
Hub staff report
Sen. Cardin visits Johns Hopkins to discuss Iran nuclear deal with students Contentious agreement set for up-or-down vote in Congress this month Image caption: U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin discussed the Iran nuclear deal with a group of Johns Hopkins students at Hodson Hall. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Sept 1, 2015 U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin visited Johns Hopkins University's Homewood campus this morning to speak with students of international relations and public policy about the nuclear agreement with Iran. Image caption: JHU President Ronald J. Daniels speaks with Sen. Ben Cardin after today's event. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Under the deal that the U.S. and five other nations reached with Iran in July, international sanctions against the Islamic republic would be lifted in exchange for Iran limiting its nuclear program so it cannot build nuclear weapons for a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/04/bogdanovski-ncaa-top-30-nominee/
Johns Hopkins swimmer among 30 nominees for NCAA Woman of the Year honor | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins swimmer among 30 nominees for NCAA Woman of the Year honor Ana Bogdanovski, who graduated in May, earned school-record 10 NCAA titles during her career with Blue Jays By Hub staff report / Published Sept 4, 2015 Swimmer Ana Bogdanovski, a 2015 Johns Hopkins University graduate, has been selected as an NCAA Woman of the Year top 30 nominee, the first-ever Hopkins athlete included among the 30 finalists for this prestigious honor. Image caption: Ana Bogdanovski Bogdanovski, who captured 10 NCAA titles and earned All-America honors 23 times in her Blue Jays career, is one of 10 Division III athletes honored and one of five swimmers. The NCAA Woman of the Year top 30 honorees, selected from an initial group of 480 nominees, exemplify excellence in academics, athletics, community service, and leadership. Later this month, a selection committee will name nine finalists—three women each Divisions I, II, and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/09/d-watkins-beast-side-qa/
D. Watkins' debut book, 'The Beast Side,' delivers an impassioned critique of racial inequality in America | Hub
Bret McCabe
D. Watkins' debut book, 'The Beast Side,' delivers an impassioned critique of racial inequality in America Baltimore writer, JHU alum on political awareness, police brutality, and the transformative power of reading Image caption: Baltimore native and writer D. Watkins received a master's degree from the Johns Hopkins University School of Education in 2011. By Bret McCabe / Published Sept 9, 2015 D. Watkins' first book—The Beast Side, which came out Tuesday—is a gripping immersion in the realities promised by its subtitle, Living and Dying While Black in America. It includes a few of his essays mentioned in last fall's Johns Hopkins Magazine profile, his incendiary wit and compact sentences cinematically capturing the lives of overlooked people in Baltimore. It also includes a number of new essays that continue Watkins' verbal immediacy but display an even more palpable vulnerability in piercing stories about the ways in which generations of poverty, disenfranchisement,
http://hub.jhu.edu/magazine/2014/fall/d-watkins-baltimore-writer#
Dwight Watkins, former drug dealer, forges a new identity: D. Watkins, author | Hub
Bret McCabe
Dwight Watkins, former drug dealer, forges a new identity: D. Watkins, author Credit: Jonathan Hanson By Bret McCabe / Published Fall 2014 This past May, writer Dwight Watkins sat in the midtown Manhattan offices of Grand Central Publishing waiting for the chance to make his pitch. He didn't have an appointment. He wasn't sure how much time he was going to get with the vice president of the paperback division—should he even get in to see her. All he knew was that he wanted a book deal for his memoir. And he understood that he would have to convince somebody to gamble on him. The 34-year-old Watkins, Ed '11 (MEd), had been in discussions with two publishers previously, but each time, no dice. Watkins recognizes that he's an unknown variable. In talking with publishers, he repeatedly hears a number of other books mentioned as comparisons: MK Asante's Buck, Ta-Nehisi Coates'
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/09/us-news-college-rankings-2015/
Johns Hopkins moves up to No. 10 in annual 'U.S. News' college rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins moves up to No. 10 in annual 'U.S. News' college rankings Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Sept 9, 2015 Johns Hopkins University has climbed to 10th in the newest U.S. News & World Report "Best Colleges Rankings," released today. That's up from 12th last year and 16th as recently as 2006. The university also moved up from seventh to third in this year's U.S. News survey of high school guidance counselors. The university has worked comprehensively over the past decade to enhance and strengthen the undergraduate experience. It has expanded research opportunities, built and renovated state-of-the-art academic buildings, and introduced new co-curricular offerings to help develop every student not only as a scholar but also as a contributing member of society. Those initiatives are tied together by improved financial aid to ensure that a family's economic circumstances do not keep
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/28/hopkins-coalition-application/
Johns Hopkins joins more than 80 other schools in effort to improve college admissions process | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins joins more than 80 other schools in effort to improve college admissions process Coalition for Access, Affordability, and Success aims to make it easier for high school students to apply to college, research options By Hub staff report / Published Sept 28, 2015 Johns Hopkins and more than 80 other schools have agreed to develop a free platform of online tools, including a new online application, that will help students plan for and apply to college and especially aid those with limited resources. The goal of the group, the Coalition for Access, Affordability, and Success, is to make it easier not only for high school students to apply to college but also to research their options, learn about admissions and financial aid procedures, and prepare for the actual application. The initial version of the planning tools will be online and available to freshmen, sophomores, and juniors in high
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/30/times-higher-education-world-rankings/
Johns Hopkins climbs to 11th in annual World University Rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins climbs to 11th in annual World University Rankings By Hub staff report / Published Sept 30, 2015 Johns Hopkins University gained four spots in the latest London Times Higher Education World University Rankings, which were released today, moving up to 11th out of 800 universities. JHU, which also ranked seventh among U.S. universities on the list, received the highest possible score of 100 in the industry income category, a measurement of the research income that a school generates relative to the size of its academic staff. Industry income is one of five key categories of criteria on which THE's rankings are based, along with teaching (including student-faculty ratios), research (by faculty members of the school), citations (the influence of the school's research on other advances in the field), and international outlook. The annual Times Higher Education list, in its 12th year, is among the world's most influential rankings
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/06/kathy-edin-explores-extreme-poverty/
Living on $2 a day: New book explores extreme poverty in the U.S. | Hub
Hub staff report
Living on $2 a day: New book explores extreme poverty in the U.S. Book is co-authored by Johns Hopkins social scientist Kathryn Edin By Hub staff report / Published Oct 6, 2015 Kathryn Edin, a social scientist and Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins University, examines the plight of people living in extreme poverty the U.S. in her new book, $2.00 a Day: Living on Almost Nothing in America. The book, co-authored by H. Luke Shaefer of the University of Michigan, features a series of profiles that explore the causes and experiences of families living with little to no cash income. Edin and Shaefer used the World Bank's standard for poverty—$2 per person per day—to determine how many U.S. families are living in extreme poverty. Their findings shocked them: In a given month, there were 1.5 million American families, including 3 million children, that met the criteria. In a recent
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/06/us-news-global-university-rankings/
Johns Hopkins 12th in 'U.S. News' Best Global University Rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins 12th in 'U.S. News' Best Global University Rankings JHU also included among world's top 10 in seven subject areas Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Oct 6, 2015 Johns Hopkins University ranks 12th on the 2016 U.S. News & World Report Global Universities Rankings, which were released today. The rankings use different criteria than those used for the publication's annual "best colleges" list, on which Johns Hopkins was 10th last month. "Students can use these rankings to explore the higher education options that exist beyond their own countries' borders and to compare key aspects of schools' research missions," U.S. News writes in its introduction to the list. The new U.S. News rankings also include Johns Hopkins among the top 10 in the world in seven subject areas: Clinical Medicine: 2 Social Sciences and Public Health: 2 Immunology: 3 Neuroscience and Behavior:
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/29/usnews-best-global-university-rankings
 Johns Hopkins 11th in first 'U.S. News' Best Global University rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins 11th in first 'U.S. News' Best Global University rankings Rankings based on academic research performance, global reputation By Hub staff report / Published Oct 29, 2014 Johns Hopkins University is the 11th best university in the world, according to the first ever Best Global University rankings published by U.S. News & World Report on Tuesday. The rankings use different criteria than those used for the annual "best colleges" list, on which Johns Hopkins ranked 12th last month. The new rankings include 500 universities in 49 countries. Sixteen of the top 20 universities are in the U.S., including Harvard, which tops the rankings. Institutions are ranked based on their academic research performance and their global and regional reputations. By contrast, the U.S. News "best colleges" list released in September puts more emphasis on undergraduate academic reputation, retention of students, and how selective a university is. More information about the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/08/d-watkins-mse-symposium/
Writer, JHU alum D. Watkins discusses activism, race, Baltimore uprising | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Writer, JHU alum D. Watkins discusses activism, race, Baltimore uprising Baltimore-born author visits campus as part of MSE Symposium Image caption: Writer and author D. Watkins speaks at a Milton S. Eisenhower Symposium event at Johns Hopkins University's Shriver Hall. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Saralyn Lyons / Published Oct 8, 2015 Baltimore-born writer and author D. Watkins opened up his Milton S. Eisenhower Symposium lecture Wednesday evening by declaring, "Tonight is going to be loose." Watkins is described in a recent Johns Hopkins Magazine profile as "a walking contradiction": a former drug dealer who earned a master's degree from JHU's School of Education in 2011. His debut book, The Beast Side: Living and Dying While Black in America, is not only, as the dust jacket says, a collection of "searing dispatches from the urban zones where African-American men have become an endangered species." It's also, in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/23/orientation-story-nest-sound-collage/
Johns Hopkins first-year students, families reflect on transition to college | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins first-year students, families reflect on transition to college StoryNest sound collage project released in time for Family Weekend By Hub staff report / Published Oct 23, 2015 The dorm room essentials were purchased, the boxes packed, and the big day had finally come: Johns Hopkins freshman move-in day. Cars overflowing with labeled boxes lined up in front of the residence halls, and first-year mentors whisked away the new Blue Jays. Students and parents shuffled across campus for welcome events and receptions before squeezing in time for the final sendoff, muttering something about doing laundry. But at this year's orientation, Johns Hopkins University's Digital Media Center invited families to share a lasting goodbye, stored in a StoryNest sound collage and unveiled just in time for a hello (and another goodbye) at Family Weekend. Project organizers encouraged families to share their stories, thoughts, and the odd mix of feelings about
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/26/community-impact-internship-program-governors-service-award/
JHU's Community Impact Internships program honored for service contributions | Hub
Rachel Chism
JHU's Community Impact Internships program honored for service contributions Program among recipients of Governor's Service Award By Rachel Chism / Published Oct 26, 2015 Johns Hopkins University's Community Impact Internships Program has been awarded a Governor's Service Award for Exemplary Service Learning, an honor that recognizes sustained commitment to community needs. The award will be presented at a ceremony today at the Miller Senate Office Building in Annapolis, Maryland. The program, administered by the university's Center for Social Concern, pairs students with Baltimore nonprofits and government agencies to work on community-identified projects for two months at no cost to the organizations themselves. During the summer, 50 students spread across the city to 48 different grassroots and community organizations to work 30 hours each week. Scott Gottbreht, director of United Way of Central Maryland's Project Homeless, nominated the group for their volunteer service during 2014. His organization has hosted interns for
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/28/hopkins-mica-station-north-grant/
Johns Hopkins, MICA receive city support for Station North community development | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins, MICA receive city support for Station North community development By Hub staff report / Published Oct 28, 2015 Johns Hopkins University is among five recipients of grant funding to support community development projects in Baltimore, the mayor's office announced today. Johns Hopkins and MICA have been awarded $40,000 for a project that aims to extend the resurgence of activity in Station North farther up Charles Street, helping to bring new businesses and residents to the area between 21st and 25th streets. Working with Central Baltimore Partnership, JHU and MICA want to attract and support entrepreneurs who can fill storefront vacancies with clusters of similar businesses, building a reputation for the area as a hot spot for, say, galleries, boutiques, salons, or restaurants. Simultaneously, the institutions will support community and business groups in initiatives to create a unique "sense of place" for the area with streetscaping, signage, neighborhood events,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/10/kathryn-edin-2-a-day-reading/
Surviving on $2 a day: Johns Hopkins social scientist examines causes, realities of extreme poverty in U.S. | Hub
Katie Pearce
Surviving on $2 a day: Johns Hopkins social scientist examines causes, realities of extreme poverty in U.S. Kathy Edin speaks about the new book she co-authored with H. Luke Shaefer, '$2.00 A Day: Living on Almost Nothing in America' By Katie Pearce / Published Nov 10, 2015 Though her new book about the lowest depths of American poverty doesn't focus on Baltimore, Johns Hopkins University social scientist Kathryn Edin says it's "very much a Baltimore story." The book, $2.00 A Day: Living on Almost Nothing in America, was inspired in part by a group of young adults who grew up in Baltimore's high-rise public housing projects, Edin said at a reading Monday night at Mason Hall on JHU's Homewood campus. Edin and her research team from Harvard had first visited the families in the 1990s, and returned in 2010, "post–welfare reform," she said, to check in on how the youngest
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/20/ta-nehisi-coates-between-the-world-and-me-talk/
In stirring return to JHU, Ta-Nehisi Coates talks systemic racism, violence, and activism | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
In stirring return to JHU, Ta-Nehisi Coates talks systemic racism, violence, and activism Author speaks at Johns Hopkins a day after receiving National Book Award for nonfiction for 'Between the World and Me' By Saralyn Lyons / Published Nov 20, 2015 Award-winning author Ta-Nehisi Coates received three standing ovations during his talk at Johns Hopkins University's Shriver Hall on Thursday evening. Members of the audience broke in during his talk to applaud as well, as if it were the State of the Union address, and Coates the president. Image caption: Ta-Nehisi Coates Image credit: Nina Subin The appearance came just a day after Coates' 2015 book, Between the World and Me, received the National Book Award for nonfiction and about six months after his spring talk at JHU, which followed the April unrest in Baltimore. His earlier book, The Beautiful Struggle, was the suggested JHU Book Read title for first-year
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/01/black-student-forum-johns-hopkins/
Johns Hopkins students, administrators gather for 'an honest conversation' about race, racism on campus | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Johns Hopkins students, administrators gather for 'an honest conversation' about race, racism on campus Faculty diversity, harassment, hate speech among issues discussed at forum hosted by JHU's Black Student Union Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Saralyn Lyons / Published Dec 1, 2015 Members of the Johns Hopkins University community gathered at Hodson Hall on Monday night to discuss issues of race on campus, a formal follow-up to a student-led campus protest just more than two weeks ago. The event, The Black Student Forum, was hosted by JHU's Black Student Union. Mieka Smart, a JHU faculty member who moderated the discussion, set the stage for the evening: "Our goal in this room is to keep it safe and to have an honest conversation that's going to stay alive after we leave those doors." The conversation lasted for more than two hours, covering topics ranging from faculty diversity and
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/13/bsu-student-protests-daniels
 Johns Hopkins students stage protest against racial discrimination on campus | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins students stage protest against racial discrimination on campus Demonstrators show solidarity with students protesting racism at University of Missouri and at colleges across the nation By Hub staff report / Published Nov 13, 2015 More than 100 Johns Hopkins University students staged a protest on the university's Homewood campus on Friday afternoon, demonstrating solidarity with students protesting racism at the University of Missouri and across the nation, voicing their frustration with racial injustices on their own campus, and demanding an audience with JHU President Ronald J. Daniels. "Why don't my professors look like me?" read a sign held by one of the protesters. "Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere," read another. The group's primary chant—"It happens at Mizzou! It happens here, too!"—made reference to weeks of student-led protests against racism at Missouri. Since then, students on campuses across the country—from Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut,
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/30/faculty-diversity-initiative
 Johns Hopkins announces Faculty Diversity Initiative | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins announces Faculty Diversity Initiative By Hub staff report / Published Nov 30, 2015 A new Faculty Diversity Initiative announced by Johns Hopkins leadership seeks to support more expansive and inclusive faculty searches, create a pipeline of diverse scholars, and broaden support for underrepresented members of the faculty. In an email to the community on Nov. 13, President Ronald J. Daniels said that the university was pursuing a comprehensive approach to increasing diversity among faculty, and Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs Robert C. Lieberman and the deans of the nine academic divisions outlined the program more thoroughly in a Nov. 30 announcement. The Faculty Diversity Initiative "will support our firm commitment to locate, attract, and retain the best and most talented faculty, representing a broad diversity of backgrounds, thought, and experiences," the provost and deans said in the announcement. "Each academic division of the university will
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/13/daniels-diversity-statement
 President Daniels releases statement on diversity at Johns Hopkins University | Hub
Hub staff report
President Daniels releases statement on diversity at Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Nov 13, 2015 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels issued a message on diversity at the university in an email to faculty, staff, and students Friday afternoon. The full text of his message is below. Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels Dear Students, Faculty, and Staff: Reports of bigotry and racial discrimination across U.S. higher education have drawn this country's attention in recent weeks, and it is important to acknowledge that this moment is not about a handful of incidents at a few institutions. Rather, it is part of a national narrative—one that plays out in the daily lives of students, faculty, and staff on campuses across the country, including ours. At Johns Hopkins, we wrestle with a complex racial legacy. Our institutions were founded by an early abolitionist [1] whose philanthropic values
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/faculty/articles/
 Faculty | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Faculty Campus Updates Fall update: Canvas Learning Management System Published Aug 26, 2022 Resources are available for faculty and students as the university begins to transition from Blackboard to Canvas this fall Legacies Dean Rothman retires after a decade of 'leading the change' Published July 15, 2022 Paul B. Rothman, dean of the medical faculty at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, retired at the end of June following 10 years—to the day—of leadership Faculty affairs Ralph Etienne-Cummings appointed next vice provost for faculty affairs at Johns Hopkins Published March 30, 2022 Professor of electrical and computer engineering will succeed Andrew Douglas, who has served in the role since July 2019 In profile The defining power of disruption Published Nov 20, 2020 Beth Blauer, a core team member of the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, says her life has been defined by moments of great upheaval. In a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/13/bsu-student-protests-daniels/
Johns Hopkins students stage protest against racial discrimination on campus | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins students stage protest against racial discrimination on campus Demonstrators show solidarity with students protesting racism at University of Missouri and at colleges across the nation By Hub staff report / Published Nov 13, 2015 More than 100 Johns Hopkins University students staged a protest on the university's Homewood campus on Friday afternoon, demonstrating solidarity with students protesting racism at the University of Missouri and across the nation, voicing their frustration with racial injustices on their own campus, and demanding an audience with JHU President Ronald J. Daniels. "Why don't my professors look like me?" read a sign held by one of the protesters. "Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere," read another. The group's primary chant—"It happens at Mizzou! It happens here, too!"—made reference to weeks of student-led protests against racism at Missouri. Since then, students on campuses across the country—from Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/13/daniels-diversity-statement/
President Daniels releases statement on diversity at Johns Hopkins University | Hub
Hub staff report
President Daniels releases statement on diversity at Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Nov 13, 2015 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels issued a message on diversity at the university in an email to faculty, staff, and students Friday afternoon. The full text of his message is below. Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels Dear Students, Faculty, and Staff: Reports of bigotry and racial discrimination across U.S. higher education have drawn this country's attention in recent weeks, and it is important to acknowledge that this moment is not about a handful of incidents at a few institutions. Rather, it is part of a national narrative—one that plays out in the daily lives of students, faculty, and staff on campuses across the country, including ours. At Johns Hopkins, we wrestle with a complex racial legacy. Our institutions were founded by an early abolitionist [1] whose philanthropic values
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/15/hopkins-east-baltimore-action/
Students at JHU's medical campus voice support for nationwide protests against racial bias in higher education | Hub
Hub staff report
Students at JHU's medical campus voice support for nationwide protests against racial bias in higher education Image caption: Students gather at the Armstrong Medical Education building on Friday to "stand in solidarity with black students and their fellow students of color at the University of Missouri, Yale University, and universities throughout the nation as they raise their voices against institutional violence and racism." By Hub staff report / Published Nov 15, 2015 Students from the Johns Hopkins University schools of Medicine, Public Health, and Nursing gathered on Friday afternoon in a show of support for students at the University of Missouri, who have led a weeks-long protest effort against racial discrimination there. Nearly 150 students turned out in the Armstrong Medical Education Building on the university's East Baltimore campus. Theirs was one of numerous campus actions across the country Friday—including a student protest at JHU's Homewood campus—showing support for Missouri
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/30/faculty-diversity-initiative/
Johns Hopkins announces Faculty Diversity Initiative | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins announces Faculty Diversity Initiative By Hub staff report / Published Nov 30, 2015 A new Faculty Diversity Initiative announced by Johns Hopkins leadership seeks to support more expansive and inclusive faculty searches, create a pipeline of diverse scholars, and broaden support for underrepresented members of the faculty. In an email to the community on Nov. 13, President Ronald J. Daniels said that the university was pursuing a comprehensive approach to increasing diversity among faculty, and Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs Robert C. Lieberman and the deans of the nine academic divisions outlined the program more thoroughly in a Nov. 30 announcement. The Faculty Diversity Initiative "will support our firm commitment to locate, attract, and retain the best and most talented faculty, representing a broad diversity of backgrounds, thought, and experiences," the provost and deans said in the announcement. "Each academic division of the university will
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/02/dawn-porter-race-in-america/
Broken U.S. criminal justice system is our 'greatest civil rights challenge,' filmmaker says | Hub
Katie Pearce
Broken U.S. criminal justice system is our 'greatest civil rights challenge,' filmmaker says Dawn Porter speaks as part of JHU Forums on Race in America series Image caption: Dawn Porter, director of 'Gideon's Army,' speaks at the third event in the JHU Forums on Race in America series. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Dec 2, 2015 While filming her documentary Gideon's Army, Dawn Porter found America's criminal justice system to be broken to the point of crisis. She calls it "our nation's greatest civil rights challenge," a line echoed by others who have experienced that system firsthand. For the 2013 film, Porter profiled a trio of public defenders working for the poorest populations in the Deep South. The public defenders depicted in the film are themselves underpaid, chronically overworked, and struggling to retain a shred of the idealism that first motivated them to
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/01/black-student-forum-johns-hopkins
 Johns Hopkins students, administrators gather for 'an honest conversation' about race, racism on campus | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Johns Hopkins students, administrators gather for 'an honest conversation' about race, racism on campus Faculty diversity, harassment, hate speech among issues discussed at forum hosted by JHU's Black Student Union Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Saralyn Lyons / Published Dec 1, 2015 Members of the Johns Hopkins University community gathered at Hodson Hall on Monday night to discuss issues of race on campus, a formal follow-up to a student-led campus protest just more than two weeks ago. The event, The Black Student Forum, was hosted by JHU's Black Student Union. Mieka Smart, a JHU faculty member who moderated the discussion, set the stage for the evening: "Our goal in this room is to keep it safe and to have an honest conversation that's going to stay alive after we leave those doors." The conversation lasted for more than two hours, covering topics ranging from faculty diversity and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/29/charles-blow-race-forum-hopkins/
Author, columnist Charles Blow discusses police brutality, Black Lives Matter, 'the two black Americas' | Hub
Katie Pearce
Author, columnist Charles Blow discusses police brutality, Black Lives Matter, 'the two black Americas' 'New York Times' journalist visits Johns Hopkins for second event in JHU Forums on Race in America series Image caption: Charles Blow, columnist at 'The New York Times,' was the featured speaker at the second event in the JHU Forums on Race in America series. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Oct 29, 2015 Charles M. Blow, veteran columnist at The New York Times, took the train down to Baltimore on Wednesday for a conversation about race. The talk he led along with Johns Hopkins University political science and Africana studies professor Lester Spence touched on issues like police brutality, urban hypocrisy, and the rise of the Black Lives Matter movement. He shared perspectives formed during his boyhood in a small Louisiana town where the vestiges of slavery never vanished.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/20/forums-on-race-in-america/
Writer, Baltimore native Ta-Nehisi Coates to speak at first event in new JHU Forums on Race in America series  | Hub
Hub staff report
Writer, Baltimore native Ta-Nehisi Coates to speak at first event in new JHU Forums on Race in America series University plans discussions on how race affects life, culture in U.S. By Hub staff report / Published April 20, 2015 As recent events in Ferguson, Staten Island, North Charleston—and right here in Baltimore—have turned a spotlight on racial inequality and community policing, members of the Johns Hopkins community have called for a meaningful conversation on the subject of race. Image caption: Ta-Nehisi Coates In response, JHU President Ronald J. Daniels and Provost Robert C. Lieberman worked with the Diversity Leadership Council and the Vice Provost for Institutional Equity to establish the JHU Forums on Race in America. This series of mixed-format discussions will begin with an event on April 28 at 6:30 p.m. in Shriver Hall featuring guest speaker Ta-Nehisi Coates, a national correspondent for The Atlantic magazine who has written
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/11/hopkins-die-in-protests/
Johns Hopkins students stage 'die-in' protests in wake of police killings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins students stage 'die-in' protests in wake of police killings Hundreds take part in peaceful demonstrations on university's Homewood, East Baltimore campuses By Hub staff report / Published Dec 11, 2014 Hundreds of students at Johns Hopkins University's Homewood and East Baltimore campuses participated in staged "die-ins" this week, joining a nationwide protest movement in the wake of the high-profile deaths of two unarmed black men—Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, and Eric Garner in New York City—at the hands of police. On Tuesday night, a large group made up mostly of undergraduate students (organizers estimated about 120 people participated) staged a peaceful demonstration at the Brody Learning Commons, lying on the floor on the library's B and Q levels as visitors stepped over them. The protest lasted 45 minutes, representing the four and a half hours that Brown's body remained on a Ferguson street after he was fatally shot
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/02/12/selma-student-screening-discussion/
'Selma' sparks discussion of racism from civil rights era to 21st century  | Hub
Rachel Chism
'Selma' sparks discussion of racism from civil rights era to 21st century Johns Hopkins hosts free student screening of film followed by Q&A By Rachel Chism / Published Feb 12, 2015 More than 200 Johns Hopkins students filled the Charles Theatre on Wednesday night for a free screening of the Academy Award-nominated historical drama Selma, followed by a panel discussion that drew similarities between events depicted in the film and more recent events dealing with race and discrimination. The film highlights the revolutionary movement for voting rights, led by Martin Luther King Jr., following passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. "I was absolutely blown away," said junior biology major Stephanie Yokoyama. "After watching Selma, where we witnessed the detail, emotional investment, and passion [King] had, I gained an understanding at a completely different level." Student Government Association President Janice Bonsu gave the opening remarks. "The draw of this film
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/02/17/racial-inequality-lieberman-harris-foreign-affairs/
Racial inequality remains a 'defining feature of American life,' Johns Hopkins provost writes | Hub
Hub staff report
Racial inequality remains a 'defining feature of American life,' Johns Hopkins provost writes Robert Lieberman, co-author Fredrick Harris examine in 'Foreign Affairs' article how institutions hold back African-Americans By Hub staff report / Published Feb 17, 2015 Fifty years after the civil rights era, racial inequality remains a real and vexing force in American society, one that is often perpetuated by institutions that appear on their faces to be race-neutral. Image caption: Robert C. Lieberman That sobering truth, along with thoughts on how it might be overcome, are the focus of an article published online today in the new issue of Foreign Affairs titled "Racial Inequality After Racism: How Institutions Hold Back African Americans." The article is co-authored by Johns Hopkins University Provost Robert C. Lieberman and Fredrick C. Harris, professor of political science at Columbia University and director of that university's Center on African American Politics and Society. The
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/02/kathryn-edin-new-york-times-book-review-100-notable/
Book co-authored by JHU's Kathryn Edin among 2015's 'notable' reads | Hub
Hub staff report
Book co-authored by JHU's Kathryn Edin among 2015's 'notable' reads '$2.00 a Day' included on annual list compiled by 'The New York Times Book Review' By Hub staff report / Published Dec 2, 2015 A book co-authored by Johns Hopkins University's Kathryn Edin's, $2.00 a Day: Living on Almost Nothing in America, has been included on The New York Times Book Review's 100 Notable Books of 2015 list. In the book, Edin, a sociologist and Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at JHU, documents extreme poverty in the U.S. with her co-author, H. Luke Shaefer. They used the World Bank's standard for poverty—$2 per person per day—to determine how many U.S. families currently live in extreme poverty. Their findings shocked them: In a given month, there are 1.5 million American families, including 3 million children that meet the criteria. "This essential book is a call to action, and one hopes it will accomplish
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/09/research-funding-leader-nsf-survey/
Johns Hopkins leads U.S. in research spending for 36th year in a row | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Johns Hopkins leads U.S. in research spending for 36th year in a row $2.24B spent on medical, science, engineering research in FY2014 By Dennis O'Shea / Published Dec 9, 2015 Johns Hopkins University led U.S. higher education in research and development for the 36th straight year, spending a record $2.242 billion in fiscal 2014 to expand scientific knowledge, find cures for disease, promote health, and advance technology. That total R&D expenditure in 2014, the most recent fiscal year for which nationwide data is available, was 3.4 percent larger than Johns Hopkins' research spending in 2013, according to the annual National Science Foundation report on institutional R&D. The University of Michigan again ranked second in total R&D with $1.349 billion spent in fiscal 2014. Rounding out the top five were the University of Washington, Seattle, at $1.176 billion, the University of Wisconsin, Madison, at $1.109 billion and the University of California,
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/06/daniels-pnas-research-funding
Decline in grants for young researchers puts future of science at risk, Johns Hopkins president writes | Hub
Jill Rosen
Decline in grants for young researchers puts future of science at risk, Johns Hopkins president writes Daniels urges policy reforms, increased NIH funding in 'PNAS' article By Jill Rosen / Published Jan 6, 2015 America's youngest scientists, increasingly losing research dollars, are leaving the academic biomedical workforce, a brain drain that poses grave risks for the future of science, according to an article published this week by Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels. Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels The article, which appears in the online Early Edition of the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, illustrates how for more than a generation, grants for young scientists have declined. The number of principal investigators with a leading National Institutes of Health grant who are 36 years old or younger dropped from 18 percent in 1983 to 3 percent in 2010. Meanwhile, the average age when a scientist
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/02/06/research-spending-rankings-nsf
 Johns Hopkins leads nation in research spending for 35th year in a row | Hub
Jill Rosen
Johns Hopkins leads nation in research spending for 35th year in a row $2.2B spent on medical, science, engineering research in FY2013 Credit: istock By Jill Rosen / Published Feb 6, 2015 Johns Hopkins University led the U.S. in higher education research spending for the 35th consecutive year in fiscal 2013, with $2.2 billion for medical, science, and engineering research, according to the National Science Foundation. The university also once again ranked first on the NSF's separate list of federally funded research and development, spending $1.89 billion in fiscal year 2013 on research supported by NSF, NASA, the National Institutes of Health, and the Department of Defense. At Johns Hopkins, research and development money supports investigations into everything from the origins of the universe to potentially lifesaving medical treatments. Recently researchers have studied the implications of climate change, better protection for those treating Ebola, brain injuries in NFL players, how
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/22/black-holes-star-formation
 Massive black holes can block formation of new stars, study finds | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Massive black holes can block formation of new stars, study finds Heat from fast-moving particles appears to prevent necessary cooling Credit: istock By Dennis O'Shea / Published Oct 22, 2014 Massive black holes spewing radio-frequency-emitting particles at near-light speed can block the formation of new stars in aging galaxies, a study has found. The research provides crucial new evidence that it is these jets of "radio-frequency feedback" streaming from mature galaxies' central black holes that prevent hot free gas from cooling and collapsing into baby stars. "When you look into the past history of the universe, you see these galaxies building stars," said Tobias Marriage, assistant professor of physics and astronomy at Johns Hopkins and co-lead author of the study. "At some point, they stop forming stars and the question is: Why? Basically, these active black holes give a reason for why stars stop forming in the universe." The findings
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/15/hurricane-power-outages-modeling
 Power grids in coastal U.S. cities increasingly at risk due to climate change | Hub
Jill Rosen
Power grids in coastal U.S. cities increasingly at risk due to climate change Johns Hopkins model shows hurricane-related power outage vulnerability By Jill Rosen / Published Dec 15, 2014 Cities such as Miami are all too familiar with hurricane-related power outages. But a Johns Hopkins University analysis finds climate change will give other major metropolitan areas a lot to worry about in the future. Johns Hopkins engineers created a computer model to predict the increasing vulnerability of power grids in major coastal cities during hurricanes. By factoring historic hurricane information with plausible scenarios for future storm behavior, the team determined which of 27 cities, from Texas to Maine, will become more susceptible to blackouts from future hurricanes. The list of cities most likely to see big increases in power outage risk is topped by New York City; Philadelphia; Jacksonville, Florida; Virginia Beach, Virginia; and Hartford, Connecticut. Cities at the bottom
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/21/rethinking-inner-city-asthma
 Johns Hopkins experts challenge belief that city living raises asthma risk | Hub
Ekaterina Pesheva and Lauren Nelson
Johns Hopkins experts challenge belief that city living raises asthma risk Study: Race, ethnicity, income may be more significant factors than physical surroundings By Ekaterina Pesheva and Lauren Nelson / Published Jan 21, 2015 Challenging the long-standing belief that city dwellers suffer disproportionately from asthma, the results of a new Johns Hopkins Children's Center study of more than 23,000 U.S. children reveal that income, race, and ethnic origin may play far more potent roles in asthma risk than kids' physical surroundings. The study, based on comparison of childhood asthma rates in cities and outside of them, found no differences in asthma risk between children living in urban areas and their suburban and rural counterparts. The findings, published online Jan. 20 in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, showed a surprisingly uneven distribution of asthma—one that fails to follow traditional patterns of urban and nonurban residence, the team says. Significantly,
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/26/nfl-players-concussion-research
 Johns Hopkins study of retired NFL players sheds light on concussion-related brain damage  | Hub
Marin Hedin
Johns Hopkins study of retired NFL players sheds light on concussion-related brain damage Research provides further evidence of potential long-term neurological risks to football players who sustain repeated head injuries By Marin Hedin / Published Jan 26, 2015 A team of Johns Hopkins specialists has gathered evidence of accumulated brain damage in former NFL players that could be linked to specific memory deficits experienced decades after the men stopped playing the game. Image caption: The brain of a 66-year-old former NFL player shows increased binding of the translocator protein across many brain regions compared to binding seen in healthy controls. Image credit: Johns Hopkins Medicine The small study, which involved imaging and cognitive tests of nine former NFL players, provides further evidence of the potential long-term neurological risks to football players who sustain repeated concussions. It also strengthens the argument of those calling for better player protections. Results of the
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/01/mercury-levels-dolphins-singapore
 Dolphin study could yield insight into how mercury influences health | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Dolphin study could yield insight into how mercury influences health Johns Hopkins researchers partner with Singapore's Resorts World Sentosa to study Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins with controlled diets Credit: Resorts World Sentosa By Phil Sneiderman / Published April 1, 2015 Johns Hopkins environmental scientists are collaborating with researchers from Dolphin Island at Resorts World Sentosa in Singapore to learn more about how and where mercury accumulates in the bodies of Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins. The partnership was formed because aquariums and zoological institutions are uniquely qualified to conduct research involving aquatic animals in their care in order to help protect and conserve wild populations of similar animals—in this case, dolphins. It is very difficult to obtain critical data on populations in nature due to difficulties in gathering details on diet, overall health, and related issues. The researchers are analyzing blood samples and health records from 10 dolphins that have been under the
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/02/surprise-babies-learning
 Element of surprise helps babies learn best, Johns Hopkins researchers say | Hub
Jill Rosen
Element of surprise helps babies learn best, Johns Hopkins researchers say Infants seek out more information about objects that defy expectations Video: Dave Schmelick, Len Turner, Deirdre Hammer By Jill Rosen / Published April 2, 2015 Infants have innate knowledge about the world, and when their expectations are defied, they learn best, researchers at Johns Hopkins University found. In a paper that will be published Friday in the journal Science, cognitive psychologists Aimee E. Stahl and Lisa Feigenson demonstrate for the first time that babies learn new things by leveraging the core information with which they are born. When something surprises a baby, like an object not behaving the way she expects it to, she not only focuses on that object but ultimately learns more about it than from a similar yet predictable object. "For young learners, the world is an incredibly complex place filled with dynamic stimuli. How do
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/14/new-horizons-pluto-flyby-just-incredible
 Space odyssey: New Horizons completes historic, three-billion-mile journey to Pluto | Hub
Hub staff report
Space odyssey: New Horizons completes historic, three-billion-mile journey to Pluto Scientists await transmission confirming that spacecraft survived flyby Image caption: Pluto nearly fills the frame in this image from the Long Range Reconnaissance Imager (LORRI) aboard NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft, taken on July 13, 2015, when the spacecraft was 476,000 miles from the surface. This is the last and most detailed image sent to Earth before the spacecraft’s closest approach to Pluto on July 14. The color image has been combined with lower-resolution color information from the Ralph instrument that was acquired earlier on July 13. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 14, 2015 NASA's New Horizons spacecraft has passed Pluto. Image caption: Members of the New Horizons science team react to seeing the spacecraft's last and sharpest image of Pluto before closest approach later in the day on Tuesday, July
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/15/new-horizons-phones-home
 Still going: New Horizons phones home following historic Pluto flyby | Hub
Hub staff report
Still going: New Horizons phones home following historic Pluto flyby Spacecraft will continue on its adventure deeper into Kuiper Belt Image caption: New Horizons flight controllers at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory celebrate after they received confirmation from the spacecraft that it had successfully completed the flyby of Pluto on July 14, 2015. Credit: NASA / Bill Ingalls By Hub staff report / Published July 15, 2015 The call everyone was waiting for is in. NASA's New Horizons spacecraft phoned home just before 9 p.m. EDT Tuesday to tell the mission team and the world it had accomplished its historic flyby of Pluto. "I know today we've inspired a whole new generation of explorers with this great success, and we look forward to the discoveries yet to come," NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said. "This is a historic win for science and for exploration. We've truly once again raised
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/14/ebola-suit-honored-for-design
 Ebola protective suit honored in global design competition | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Ebola protective suit honored in global design competition Johns Hopkins' Ebola protective suit honored in Fast Company 'Innovation by Design Awards' An advanced protective suit for health care workers who treat Ebola patients, devised by a Johns Hopkins team By Dennis O'Shea / Published Sept 14, 2015 The Johns Hopkins University's new personal protective suit for frontline health care workers in Ebola outbreaks was honored Monday as one of 10 finalists in the Social Good category of Fast Company's 2015 Innovation by Design Awards. The suit, intended for use in future Ebola outbreaks like the 2014 epidemic that killed thousands in West Africa, has elements to keep the wearer more comfortable than existing suits, reduce the risk of coming in contact with the virus and protect against other infectious diseases. Fast Company praised the design's prospects to do a "better job than current garments at keeping health care workers from
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/30/early-universe-class-telescope-chile
 High-powered JHU telescope designed to explore origins of universe moving toward 'first light' | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
High-powered JHU telescope designed to explore origins of universe moving toward 'first light' Two-story CLASS telescope will be packed up, reassembled in Chile Video: Deirdre Hammer By Arthur Hirsch / Published Sept 30, 2015 An effort to peer into the origins of the universe with the most effective instrument ever used in the effort is taking a big step forward, as Johns Hopkins University scientists begin shipping a two-story-tall microwave telescope to its base in Chile. Pieces of the Cosmology Large Angular Scale Surveyor telescope—also known as CLASS—will soon be packed in a 40-foot container and sent south, as scientists get closer to taking observations of a faint, ancient electromagnetic energy that pervades the sky, holding clues about how the universe began. Charles L. Bennett, professor of physics and astronomy and Johns Hopkins Gilman Scholar, is the project leader. "It's going to be great to work our way toward first
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/26/rapid-plankton-growth-could-signal-climate-change
 Rapid plankton growth in ocean seen as sign of carbon dioxide loading | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
Rapid plankton growth in ocean seen as sign of carbon dioxide loading Johns Hopkins-led study suggests faster ecosystem change than predicted By Arthur Hirsch / Published Nov 26, 2015 A microscopic marine alga is thriving in the North Atlantic to an extent that defies scientific predictions, suggesting swift environmental change as a result of increased carbon dioxide in the ocean, a study led by a Johns Hopkins University scientist has found. What these findings mean remains to be seen, as does whether the rapid growth in the tiny plankton's population is good or bad news for the planet. Published today in the journal Science, the study details a tenfold increase in the abundance of single-cell coccolithophores between 1965 and 2010, and a particularly sharp spike since the late 1990s in the population of these pale-shelled floating phytoplankton. Image caption: A scanning electron microscope image of a coccolithophore, which can measure
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/applied-physics-laboratory/articles/
 Applied physics laboratory | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Applied physics laboratory Space science Undergrads help NASA uncover the mysteries of Venus Published April 8, 2024 Students are learning the ins and outs of the Venusian atmosphere and building a sensor for NASA's DAVINCI mission, thanks to the vision of APL planetary scientist Noam Izenberg and a small team of faculty experts Space exploration A bigger, bolder moon shot Published Spring 2024 NASA's ambitious moon return involves plans to build a long-term human presence in the solar system / Johns Hopkins Magazine Awards+Honors DART mission lead named to TIME100 Published April 13, 2023 Ed Reynolds, a program manager at APL, led a team of hundreds in successful demonstration of asteroid redirection technology Space exploration JWST detects distant exoplanet Published Jan 11, 2023 Using NASA's James Webb Space Telescope, a team led by researchers at Johns Hopkins APL confirmed the discovery of an exoplanet orbiting a red dwarf
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/asthma/articles/
 Asthma | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Asthma Air Pollution Gas stoves might pose risks to both our planet and health Published Feb 22, 2022 Johns Hopkins climate and pulmonary medicine experts weigh in on recent study of the toxic emissions from the household gas stoves. Environmental health Higher BPA levels linked to more asthma symptoms in children Published Aug 7, 2020 Previous studies have found evidence that the chemical can have pro-inflammatory effects, so researchers investigated the link between BPA exposure and the extent of asthma symptoms An itch you can't scratch Published March 9, 2018 Discovery of itch receptors in throats of mice could eventually yield better asthma treatments Child health Coarse particles in the air linked to asthma in children Published Dec 15, 2017 Study: Children exposed to dust, sand, and vehicle-related emissions more likely to develop asthma than those not exposed Tax relief Traffic fees helps kids breathe easier Published March
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/astrophysics/articles/
 Astrophysics | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Astrophysics Astrophysics A clearer picture of our galaxy and beyond Published Feb 27, 2024 Results demonstrate novel strategy to probe the physics and history of the universe Astrophysics Which came first: black holes or galaxies? Published Feb 6, 2024 Black holes not only existed at the dawn of time, they birthed new stars and supercharged galaxy formation, a new analysis of James Webb Space Telescope data suggests Space exploration Euclid space telescope data will shed light on evolution of dark universe Published July 11, 2023 Three Hopkins scientists—Chuck Bennett, Brice Ménard, and Graeme Addison—are part of the science team that will analyze mission data Astrophysics Could copycat black hole be a new type of star? Published April 20, 2023 Though the mysterious object is a hypothetical mathematical construction, new simulations by Hopkins researchers suggest there could be other celestial bodies in space hiding from even the best telescopes
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/brain-science/articles/
 Brain science | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Brain science Shaking boxes—for science Published Spring 2024 What shaking boxes can teach us about how our brains work / Johns Hopkins Magazine Biomedical engineering A brain imaging advance Published Dec 14, 2023 Hopkins team develops new algorithm that can create 'super-scans' of the brain TV brain drain Published Jan 10, 2023 A recent study from the Bloomberg School of Public Health suggests that excess TV viewing can lead to reduced amounts of cranial gray matter. Brain science A cure for coma? Published July 25, 2022 Researchers at Johns Hopkins and elsewhere aim for better diagnosis, treatment, and outcomes for a condition that still mystifies Brain science Blind people remember language better than sighted people do Published April 27, 2022 Researchers theorize that the area responsible for vision in sighted people may enhance recall or language processing abilities in people who are blind Exercise science TV brain drain
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/charles-bennett/articles/
 Charles bennett | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Charles bennett Astrophysics A clearer picture of our galaxy and beyond Published Feb 27, 2024 Results demonstrate novel strategy to probe the physics and history of the universe Faculty honors Astrophysicist Chuck Bennett earns prestigious Rumford Prize Published Jan 13, 2022 Bennett led the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe, which 'transformed our view of the universe'; he will be recognized in a ceremony next month Breakthrough Prize Big Breakthrough for Bennett Published Dec 3, 2017 Johns Hopkins astrophysicist Charles Bennett shares $3M Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics for groundbreaking WMAP space mission Cosmology Bennett honored for 'transformative' work Published June 30, 2017 Astrophysicist receives 2017 Isaac Newton Medal and Prize for 'transformative effect in cosmology' Space exploration First for CLASS Published May 19, 2016 Video High-powered telescope peering into origins of the universe receives 'first light' Space@Hopkins Space initiative blasts off Published May 13, 2016 Effort launches with goal
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/child-development/articles/
 Child development | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Child development Child Development Born curious Published Fall 2021 A new Johns Hopkins study is the first to show that curious babies become curious toddlers / Johns Hopkins Magazine Cognitive science Hand-writing letters shown to be best technique for learning to read Published July 7, 2021 Hand-writing letters more effectively teaches reading skills compared to typing and watching videos, study finds Cognitive science Study: The most curious babies become the most curious toddlers Published June 28, 2021 Infants' responses to surprising events like magic tricks are linked to later cognitive ability, researchers find Public health Tylenol during pregnancy may increase autism, ADHD risks Published Nov 5, 2019 In analysis of umbilical cord blood, researchers discover that elevated levels of acetaminophen is associated with up to three times the risk of autism, ADHD diagnosis Brain science Babies understand counting years earlier than believed Published Oct 24, 2019 Video Babies
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/climate-change/articles/
 Climate change | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Climate change Environmental health California leads U.S. emissions of little-known greenhouse gas Published April 3, 2024 The state emits more of the common pesticide sulfuryl fluoride than the rest of country combined, a JHU study finds Planetary health New institute aims to safeguard human health on a changing planet Published April 2, 2024 Institute for Planetary Health will bridge multiple disciplines to address how changes to Earth's environment are affecting human health Climate policy Samantha Power urges major investments in climate resilience Published Jan 30, 2024 During an address at the Hopkins Bloomberg Center, the USAID administrator said the world is moving far too slowly to address changes in our climate and discussed how we can all be part of the solution 3 Questions The road ahead after COP28 Published Dec 18, 2023 The U.N. summit's climate pact is a step in the right direction, but much more
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/concussions/
 Concussions | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Concussions Brain science Brain scans of ex-NFL players show impact of collision sports Published Nov 29, 2023 Hopkins Medicine adds to growing stack of evidence that collision sports involving repeated blows to the head may lead to dementia and other forms of cognitive disorders Head injuries Engineers tackle concussion research Published Jan 29, 2018 Video Researchers developing digital tools for faster, more precise diagnosis Lasting impact Published Spring 2017 JHU psychiatrist examines brains of NFL athletes who have suffered concussions, finding molecular changes that last decades after trauma / Johns Hopkins Magazine Sports science Signs of brain injuries seen in young NFL players Published Nov 29, 2016 Findings add to mounting evidence of connection between concussions and the neurodegenerative disease CTE Injury analysis How catchers get hurt Published Sept 8, 2015 Most MLB catcher injuries aren't caused by home plate collisions, study finds / Hopkins Medicine Researchers study
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/conservation/articles/
 Conservation | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Conservation Cash transfers to the poor linked to ecological benefits Published June 12, 2020 Study finds that cash infusions to poor communities in Indonesia led to less deforestation of the nation's rainforests Public health Winged victory Published Jan 3, 2020 A Hopkins scientist is studying the ways the deadly Nipah virus affects carrier fruit bats to better understand how it spreads to humans Life lessons from rhinos Published Summer 2017 A museum program pairs up with the Maryland Zoo, challenging students to create promo materials that educate and fascinate local school kids / Johns Hopkins Magazine Sustainability Seafood scruples Published Winter 2016 Alum Jennifer Dianto Kemmerly helps connect consumers with environmentally responsible seafood / Johns Hopkins Magazine Mercury rising? Published April 1, 2015 Video Dolphin study could yield insight into how mercury influences health Right fish, wrong pond Published Summer 2013 If Rachel Carson had been a better
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/earth-and-planetary-sciences/articles/
 Earth and planetary sciences | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Earth and planetary sciences Astronomy Rare 'Hophenge' solar event Published April 9, 2024 On the evening of the solar eclipse, the Hopkins community enjoyed a second celestial event: "Hophenge," when the sun perfectly aligned with the Gilman Hall spire Astronomy Hopkins experts discuss the total solar eclipse Published April 5, 2024 Panelists encouraged viewers to witness the rare event on April 8 firsthand if possible, and shared the science behind what makes a total solar eclipse so special New Jersey earthquake makes waves in Baltimore Published April 5, 2024 A seismometer on the Homewood campus picked up Friday's earthquake, says Earth and Planetary Sciences Professor Benjamin Fernando Space exploration A bigger, bolder moon shot Published Spring 2024 NASA's ambitious moon return involves plans to build a long-term human presence in the solar system / Johns Hopkins Magazine In memoriam Atmospheric scientist Richard S. Stolarski dies at 82 Published
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/environmental-science/articles/
 Environmental science | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Environmental science Alumni spotlight Citizen scientists in bloom Published Aug 8, 2022 Alum Ikbal Choudhury's nonprofit uses low-cost, low-resource tools to teach children about environmental science Commentary Time to prepare for the next Harvey Published Aug 29, 2017 Hopkins expert Paul Ferraro says leaders must do more to make sure Americans are prepared, safe / Bloomberg View Q+A Expert: 'Unimaginable' impact from EPA cuts Published March 17, 2017 School of Public Health's Tom Burke served as EPA science adviser, deputy assistant administrator Environmental health Scientists wary of coming climate policy shift Published Dec 8, 2016 Experts discuss what Trump's global warming skepticism, pledge to revive coal mean for environmental, public health Commentary Conservation complication Published Aug 2, 2016 Video Efforts to reduce water use in agriculture could end up having the opposite effect, JHU expert writes / Bloomberg View Marine ecology Canaries in cold seas Published Spring 2016
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/head-injuries/
 Head injuries | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Head injuries Head injuries Engineers tackle concussion research Published Jan 29, 2018 Video Researchers developing digital tools for faster, more precise diagnosis Researchers study brain injuries in ex-NFL players Published Jan 26, 2015 Results provide further evidence of potential long-term neurological risks to football players who sustain repeated head injuries / Hopkins Medicine Protect your head Published Nov 12, 2012 Johns Hopkins-led study suggests helmets decrease risk of severe head injuries for skiers, snowboarders
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/hurricanes/articles/
 Hurricanes | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Hurricanes Climate science Study: In wake of hurricane, microbial ecosystem remarkably resilient Published June 2, 2022 Findings offer hope for coastal regions even as climate change intensifies storm risk Climate change, superstorms, and civil engineering Published Sept 13, 2018 Two Hopkins engineers discuss the critical importance of shoring up America's infrastructure to protect from storms like Florence University monitoring Hurricane Florence, making preparations Published Sept 11, 2018 Storm is expected to bring high winds, rain, and a storm surge to Baltimore-Washington region Race in America Taking stock of Puerto Rico Published March 28, 2018 Six months after Hurricane Maria, experts explore storm's impacts on island in panel discussion Race in America Public health crises in Puerto Rico Published March 19, 2018 March 27 panel discussion will examine island's public health needs following devastation caused by Hurricane Maria Music Disaster relief that strikes a chord Published Jan 18, 2018
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/johns-hopkins-childrens-center/articles/
 Johns hopkins children's center | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Johns hopkins children's center COVID-19 Impacts Type 2 diabetes cases in children on the rise during COVID-19 pandemic Published Aug 25, 2022 Johns Hopkins researchers cite environmental changes caused by the pandemic, including adapting routines and less physical activity, as likely contributors to the increase in type 2 diabetes cases among children Public health Johns Hopkins Children's Center saves newborn with heart condition Published Feb 22, 2022 The child, Eve McLennan, was born with critical aortic stenosis and had a life-saving surgery when she was two weeks old Johns Hopkins Children's Center to study COVID-19 safety in schools Published Nov 11, 2021 Experts to research families' perceptions of public health recommendations regarding COVID-19 'U.S. News' releases annual children's hospital rankings Published June 15, 2021 Johns Hopkins Children's Center, Johns Hopkins All Children's Hospital ranked among nation's best U.S. News rankings Hopkins Children's Center among best U.S. children's hospitals
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/lisa-feigenson/articles/
 Lisa feigenson | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Lisa feigenson Cognitive science Study: The most curious babies become the most curious toddlers Published June 28, 2021 Infants' responses to surprising events like magic tricks are linked to later cognitive ability, researchers find Baby talk How little ones learn best Published April 2, 2015 Video Infants seek out more information about objects that surprise them, researchers say Brain researcher honored Published Jan 23, 2015 Lisa Feigenson receives $75,000 Troland Research Award from NAS for her ongoing investigation of early brain development, number sense What is he thinking? Published Summer 2013 Video Researchers in the Johns Hopkins Laboratory for Child Development explore the minds of infants and children / Johns Hopkins Magazine
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/nasa/articles/
 Nasa | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Nasa Space exploration A bigger, bolder moon shot Published Spring 2024 NASA's ambitious moon return involves plans to build a long-term human presence in the solar system / Johns Hopkins Magazine Sending heart tissue to space Published Summer 2023 Johns Hopkins scientists study aging and heart disease by sending heart "tissue-on-a-chip" to space / Johns Hopkins Magazine Space safety Hopkins, Carnegie Mellon to co-lead new NASA institute Published March 16, 2023 The JHU-CMU team is spearheading a Space Technology Research Institute to prevent failure in additively manufactured spaceflight materials Biomedical engineering Heart tissue heads to space Published March 15, 2023 The experiments on the International Space Station aim to inform researchers' understanding and treatment of age-related cardiac problems Bracing for impact DART spacecraft prepares for asteroid collision Published Sept 14, 2022 The proof-of-concept mission managed by APL aims to demonstrate how a spacecraft can be used to deflect
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/new-horizons/articles/
 New horizons | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles New horizons 10 cool things we've learned about Pluto Published July 21, 2020 Five years after the historic New Horizons flyby of Pluto, scientists have learned that the planet is far from an inert ball of ice and is one of the most geologically active and exciting places in the solar system New Horizons Image reveals fresh Ultima Thule details Published Jan 25, 2019 Light and dark patterns seen on both lobes of distant Kuiper Belt object in recent New Horizons transmission Deep space Ultima Thule, now in 3D Published Jan 4, 2019 Before passing behind the sun, 'New Horizons' spacecraft relays scientific data daily 'New Horizons' Mission reveals entirely new kind of world Published Jan 2, 2019 New, detailed images of Ultima Thule shed light on the processes that built the planets billions of years ago Pixel perfect 'New Horizons' successfully explores distant Ultima Thule Published Jan
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/oceanography/articles/
 Oceanography | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Oceanography Project Argo Published Summer 2021 Inside the oceans, autonomous floats take the temperature and pulse of our changing saltwater world. Two Hopkins alums helped send this fleet on its way. / Johns Hopkins Magazine Global warming Currents of change Published Summer 2021 The complex relationship between climate change and the oceans already affects our lives, and as the planet warms, we haven't seen the worst of it / Johns Hopkins Magazine Extreme robotics Deep down below Published Summer 2021 For almost three decades, Whiting School Professor Louis Whitcomb has developed tools and vehicles that enable oceanographers to explore once-unreachable depths / Johns Hopkins Magazine Marine ecology Canaries in cold seas Published Spring 2016 One-millimeter mollusks could hold clues to the health of oceans / Johns Hopkins Magazine Plankton problems? Published Nov 26, 2015 Study: Rapid growth in plankton population in North Atlantic could indicate significant climate change
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/president-ron-daniels/
 President ron daniels | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles President ron daniels Message University leaders share update on Homewood campus encampment Published May 10, 2024 A message to the Johns Hopkins University community from President Ron Daniels and Provost Ray Jayawardhana Message President Daniels shares message on campus protest Published May 2, 2024 His update on outreach to protesters reiterates the university's commitment 'to maintaining a campus environment that values free speech, but also where everyone feels safe and welcome' Message University leaders share update on campus protest Published April 30, 2024 President, provost describe 'peaceful and productive resolution' to support continuation of pro-Palestinian protest at Homewood Authors+Insights The decline of the American dream Published Nov 9, 2023 In conversation with JHU President Ron Daniels, Leonhardt explores factors preventing many Americans from prospering Hopkins in D.C. Hopkins Bloomberg Center launches Authors & Insights series Published Oct 30, 2023 Series starts with book events featuring 'New York Times'
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/seth-guikema/articles/
 Seth guikema | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Seth guikema Power failure? Published May 28, 2015 Analysis finds shortcomings in how regulators determine reliability of nation's electricity systems In the dark Power grid predictions Published Dec 15, 2014 Power supplies in coastal U.S. cities increasingly at risk due to climate change, JHU model shows Next top model? Planning for disasters Published Oct 28, 2013 JHU-led project aims to help region better withstand hurricanes, heat waves Model behavior Statistical storm-chaser Published Nov 9, 2012 Computer model designed to predict power outages showed remarkable promise during Superstorm Sandy / Rising
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/space-exploration/articles/
 Space exploration | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Space exploration Space exploration A bigger, bolder moon shot Published Spring 2024 NASA's ambitious moon return involves plans to build a long-term human presence in the solar system / Johns Hopkins Magazine Space exploration JWST zooms in on 19 nearby spiral galaxies Published Jan 29, 2024 Hopkins research scientist David Thilker explains how studying this treasure trove of images can help shed light on the star formation process Space exploration News flash: Study decodes secrets of impacts in space Published July 18, 2023 By creating small impact flashes down on Earth, JHU researchers can better understand collisions in outer space Space exploration Supernovae are important source of dust for young galaxies Published July 12, 2023 James Webb Space Telescope detects large amounts of dust in the aftermath of the explosive deaths of distant stars Space exploration Euclid space telescope data will shed light on evolution of dark universe
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/space/articles/
 Space | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Space Space science Undergrads help NASA uncover the mysteries of Venus Published April 8, 2024 Students are learning the ins and outs of the Venusian atmosphere and building a sensor for NASA's DAVINCI mission, thanks to the vision of APL planetary scientist Noam Izenberg and a small team of faculty experts Planetary science Interstellar signal linked to aliens was actually just a truck Published March 7, 2024 The findings from a Johns Hopkins University-led team raise doubts that materials pulled last year from the ocean are alien materials from a 2014 meteor fireball Sending heart tissue to space Published Summer 2023 Johns Hopkins scientists study aging and heart disease by sending heart "tissue-on-a-chip" to space / Johns Hopkins Magazine Space safety Hopkins, Carnegie Mellon to co-lead new NASA institute Published March 16, 2023 The JHU-CMU team is spearheading a Space Technology Research Institute to prevent failure in additively
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/sustainability/articles/
 Sustainability | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Sustainability Sustainability Campus as a Living Lab program brings sustainability research close to home Published March 4, 2024 Researchers can receive grants of up to $50,000 for work utilizing the university's campuses Sustainability 'Freezer Challenge' helps Hopkins labs reduce energy consumption Published Nov 27, 2023 Participating JHU labs were able to lower their energy use by a collective 1,202 kWh per day 3 Questions Offshore wind project headwinds threaten Biden's clean energy goals Published Nov 6, 2023 Structural engineer Ben Schafer says that despite recent cancellation of two major projects, the future remains bright for offshore wind energy Sustainability Hopkins Dining partners with sustainable farmers Published Oct 16, 2023 Strong Roots 9 co-founders Matthew and Tia Raiford are spicing up the menu at Hopkins while also supporting the university's push for more environmentally conscious dining Sustainability Input sought on sustainability plan Published Sept 27, 2023 Draft document outlines
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/tobias-marriage/articles/
 Tobias marriage | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Tobias marriage Space exploration First for CLASS Published May 19, 2016 Video High-powered telescope peering into origins of the universe receives 'first light' Hot out there Why fewer stars are born Published March 23, 2016 Evidence suggests radiation, winds from quasars significantly slowed star formation CLASS trip Moving toward 'first light' Published Sept 30, 2015 Video High-powered JHU telescope, designed to explore early universe, prepares to relocate to Chile
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/weather/articles/
 Weather | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Weather Climate science Simultaneous extreme weather created dangerous conditions in U.S. Published June 28, 2022 The dangerous extremes are expected to continue to topple records as the effects of climate change continue to shift weather patterns No two alike Published Winter 2019 For decades, Wilson Alwyn Bentley took detailed photographs of snow crystals, effectively pioneering photomicrography. Today, his iconic images are a ubiquitous aspect of winter—thanks in part to a Johns Hopkins–trained physicist. / Johns Hopkins Magazine Photos Snow much fun! Published Jan 14, 2019 Recent snowfall turned JHU's Homewood campus into a winter wonderland University monitoring Hurricane Florence, making preparations Published Sept 11, 2018 Storm is expected to bring high winds, rain, and a storm surge to Baltimore-Washington region Photos Spring surprise Published March 21, 2018 Photos Powerful winter storm dumps snow across Baltimore region; JHU closed Wednesday Snow photos Winter wonderland Published Dec 11, 2017 Photos
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/10/03/guikema-storm-modeling/
Tool would help utilities predict, prepare for power outages | Hub

Tool would help utilities predict, prepare for power outages Guikema working on data model that uses forecasts, census records Published Oct 3, 2012 Last month, as Hurricane Isaac drenched Louisiana, nearly half of the state's homes—more than 900,000 customers—lost power. In late June, a line of severe storms moved across the Upper Midwest and Mid-Atlantic regions, leaving nearly 4 million power customers without electricity. In many cases, electricity wasn't restored for days. But what if utility companies had been able to more accurately predict the potential impact of those storms on their customers? What if they knew in advance how many people would lose power, and where? Seth Guikema, a Johns Hopkins School of Engineering researcher who specializes in risk assessment and risk management, wants to give utilities the tools to answer those complex questions. He is working to develop a data model that uses weather forecasts, U.S. Census records,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/11/09/superstorm-sandy-forecast-modeling/
Computer model predicts Sandy-related outages with remarkable accuracy | Hub
Hub staff report
Computer model predicts Sandy-related outages with remarkable accuracy Tool uses weather forecast, population data to estimate loss of power By Hub staff report / Published Nov 9, 2012 With tens of thousands of people still coping with the destructive impact of Superstorm Sandy nearly two weeks after the storm made landfall in New Jersey, thoughts have turned to how we can better predict such events in the future, and how we can better prepare. Seth Guikema, a researcher at the Johns Hopkins Whiting School of Engineering, has at least a partial answer—data modeling. Guikema and his team have developed a computer model built on data from 11 hurricanes to estimate the number of customers who will lose power during a storm, based on expected wind gust speeds, expected duration of winds, and population density. They ran their model during Sandy with impressive results—despite considerable uncertainty about where the storm would
http://hub.jhu.edu/2012/10/28/hurricane-sandy-power-outages
 10M could lose power due to Hurricane Sandy, Johns Hopkins engineer says | Hub
Amy Lunday
10M could lose power due to Hurricane Sandy, Johns Hopkins engineer says Team has developed computer model built on data from 11 hurricanes By Amy Lunday / Published Oct 28, 2012 Seth Guikema, an engineer at Johns Hopkins University, predicts that 10 million people from Northern Virginia to New Jersey and into southeastern Pennsylvania will be without power in the wake of Hurricane Sandy. Guikema and his team have developed a computer model built on outage data from 11 hurricanes to estimate the fraction of customers who will lose power, based on expected wind gust speeds, expected duration of winds greater than 45 miles per hour (20 meters per second), and population density. They ran their model using the official National Hurricane Center track and intensity forecast from 8 a.m. EDT on Sunday, and emphasize that the number of power outages could change as the storm progresses and forecasts become
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/10/28/hurricane-sandy-power-outages/
10M could lose power due to Hurricane Sandy, Johns Hopkins engineer says | Hub
Amy Lunday
10M could lose power due to Hurricane Sandy, Johns Hopkins engineer says Team has developed computer model built on data from 11 hurricanes By Amy Lunday / Published Oct 28, 2012 Seth Guikema, an engineer at Johns Hopkins University, predicts that 10 million people from Northern Virginia to New Jersey and into southeastern Pennsylvania will be without power in the wake of Hurricane Sandy. Guikema and his team have developed a computer model built on outage data from 11 hurricanes to estimate the fraction of customers who will lose power, based on expected wind gust speeds, expected duration of winds greater than 45 miles per hour (20 meters per second), and population density. They ran their model using the official National Hurricane Center track and intensity forecast from 8 a.m. EDT on Sunday, and emphasize that the number of power outages could change as the storm progresses and forecasts become
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/10/29/hurricane-sandy-photos-jhu/
Photos: Hurricane Sandy at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Hub staff report
Photos: Hurricane Sandy at Johns Hopkins By Hub staff report / Published Oct 29, 2012 The Hub is posting Johns Hopkins University-related Hurricane Sandy photos taken during and after the storm. There were reports of minor flooding and leaking on the Homewood campus, and at least one downed tree, but no reported injuries or power losses. If you have images to share, send them to hub@jhu.edu or post them on Twitter using the #hubjhu hash tag. A reminder that important weather-related announcements will be made on the university's emergency notices web page. Stay safe, everyone. Posted in University News Tagged weather, hurricane sandy Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/10/30/hurricane-sandy-coverage/
University resumes normal operations Wednesday as Sandy moves on | Hub
Hub staff report
University resumes normal operations Wednesday as Sandy moves on No injuries, power loss reported at Homewood campus in wake of storm By Hub staff report / Published Oct 30, 2012 Johns Hopkins University will resume normal operations on Wednesday after being shut down for two days due to Hurricane Sandy. The storm system made landfall Monday night in southern New Jersey and brought heavy rain and strong wind gusts to the Baltimore metropolitan area throughout the day and night. The university was closed Tuesday as the remnants of the storm lingered in the region and across much of the Northeast, but rain had tapered off and winds had died down considerably by Tuesday morning. There were reports of minor leaking and flooding on the Homewood campus, and at least one downed tree, but no injuries and no power loss, according to a university official. "The storm has passed and the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/11/12/ski-helmets-safety/
Helmets help save lives of skiers, snowboarders, research suggests | Hub
Stephanie Desmon
Helmets help save lives of skiers, snowboarders, research suggests Findings debunk beliefs that safety gear promotes riskier behavior Credit: iStock Photo By Stephanie Desmon / Published Nov 12, 2012 The use of helmets by skiers and snowboarders decreases the risk and severity of head injuries and saves lives, new Johns Hopkins-led research suggests. The findings debunk long-held beliefs by some that the use of helmets gives athletes a false sense of security and promotes dangerous behavior that might increase injuries. "There really is a great case to be made for wearing helmets," says Adil H. Haider, an associate professor of surgery at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and the leader of the study published in the November issue of the Journal of Trauma and Acute Care Surgery. "By increasing awareness and giving people scientific proof, we hope behavior changes will follow." Statistics show that roughly 10 million Americans
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/03/07/concussion-research-impact/
Computer modeling may help athletes, soldiers avoid concussions | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Computer modeling may help athletes, soldiers avoid concussions Researchers take close look at how brain responds to impact Credit: Stock By Phil Sneiderman / Published March 7, 2013 Concussions can occur in sports and in combat, but health experts do not know precisely which jolts, collisions, and awkward head movements during these activities pose the greatest risks to the brain. To find out, Johns Hopkins engineers have developed a powerful new computer-based process that helps identify the dangerous conditions that lead to concussion-related brain injuries. This approach could lead to new medical treatment options and some sports rule changes to reduce brain trauma among players. Image caption: K.T. Ramesh The research comes at a time when greater attention is being paid to assessing and preventing the head injuries sustained by both soldiers and athletes. Some kinds of head injuries are difficult to see with standard diagnostic imaging but can have
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/10/28/guikema-modeling-grant-nsf/
JHU-led project aims to help region better withstand hurricanes, heat waves | Hub
Jill Rosen
JHU-led project aims to help region better withstand hurricanes, heat waves Guikema receives $3M grant to build multidisciplinary data modeling tool By Jill Rosen / Published Oct 28, 2013 The National Science Foundation has awarded Seth Guikema, a Johns Hopkins University assistant professor of geography and environmental engineering, a $3 million grant to build a program that will determine the effect of repeated hurricanes and heat waves on the Mid-Atlantic region and suggest ways to improve the region's ability to withstand them. A team led by Guikema will create a computer model that incorporates research on engineering, social and behavioral sciences, geosciences, climate science, public health, and landscape architecture. The resulting project will allow scientists to test hypotheses about a region's ability to withstand hazards in a way never before possible. The project, Guikema said, will help policymakers, emergency personnel, and homeowners understand the steps they can take to better
http://hub.jhu.edu/2012/11/09/superstorm-sandy-forecast-modeling
 Computer model predicts Sandy-related outages with remarkable accuracy | Hub
Hub staff report
Computer model predicts Sandy-related outages with remarkable accuracy Tool uses weather forecast, population data to estimate loss of power By Hub staff report / Published Nov 9, 2012 With tens of thousands of people still coping with the destructive impact of Superstorm Sandy nearly two weeks after the storm made landfall in New Jersey, thoughts have turned to how we can better predict such events in the future, and how we can better prepare. Seth Guikema, a researcher at the Johns Hopkins Whiting School of Engineering, has at least a partial answer—data modeling. Guikema and his team have developed a computer model built on data from 11 hurricanes to estimate the number of customers who will lose power during a storm, based on expected wind gust speeds, expected duration of winds, and population density. They ran their model during Sandy with impressive results—despite considerable uncertainty about where the storm would
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/hurricane-sandy/
 Hurricane sandy | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Hurricane sandy Model behavior Statistical storm-chaser Published Nov 9, 2012 Computer model designed to predict power outages showed remarkable promise during Superstorm Sandy / Rising Photos: Sandy at JHU Published Oct 29, 2012 Photos Images taken during and after Hurricane Sandy on the Homewood campus
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/seth-guikema/
 Seth guikema | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Seth guikema Power failure? Published May 28, 2015 Analysis finds shortcomings in how regulators determine reliability of nation's electricity systems In the dark Power grid predictions Published Dec 15, 2014 Power supplies in coastal U.S. cities increasingly at risk due to climate change, JHU model shows Next top model? Planning for disasters Published Oct 28, 2013 JHU-led project aims to help region better withstand hurricanes, heat waves Model behavior Statistical storm-chaser Published Nov 9, 2012 Computer model designed to predict power outages showed remarkable promise during Superstorm Sandy / Rising
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/weather/
 Weather | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Weather Climate science Simultaneous extreme weather created dangerous conditions in U.S. Published June 28, 2022 The dangerous extremes are expected to continue to topple records as the effects of climate change continue to shift weather patterns No two alike Published Winter 2019 For decades, Wilson Alwyn Bentley took detailed photographs of snow crystals, effectively pioneering photomicrography. Today, his iconic images are a ubiquitous aspect of winter—thanks in part to a Johns Hopkins–trained physicist. / Johns Hopkins Magazine Photos Snow much fun! Published Jan 14, 2019 Recent snowfall turned JHU's Homewood campus into a winter wonderland University monitoring Hurricane Florence, making preparations Published Sept 11, 2018 Storm is expected to bring high winds, rain, and a storm surge to Baltimore-Washington region Photos Spring surprise Published March 21, 2018 Photos Powerful winter storm dumps snow across Baltimore region; JHU closed Wednesday Snow photos Winter wonderland Published Dec 11, 2017 Photos
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/05/wsj-oped-daniels-rothman/
Daniels, Rothman urge stronger support for young scientists in WSJ commentary | Hub
Hub staff report
Daniels, Rothman urge stronger support for young scientists in WSJ commentary By Hub staff report / Published March 5, 2014 In a commentary published today in The Wall Street Journal, Ronald J. Daniels, president of Johns Hopkins University, and Paul B. Rothman, CEO of Johns Hopkins Medicine and dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, examine the dwindling number of grants being awarded to young scientists and explain why we should be concerned. The article, titled "How to Reverse the Graying of Scientific Research," describes some troubling trends: According to the NIH, between 1980 and 2012, the share of research funding going to scientists under age 35 fell from 5.6% to 1.3%. And in a similar span, from 1983 to 2010, the number of R01 grants—"a highly competitive, peer-reviewed grant that supports independent, investigator-driven science"—awarded to researchers under age 36 fell from 18% to 3%. "Considering that many of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/07/09/sequestration-cuts-medical-research/
Mikulski, NIH director decry cuts to federal medical research funding | Hub
Hub staff report
Mikulski, NIH director decry cuts to federal medical research funding Rothman estimates loss of $70M in federal funding for Hopkins Medicine By Hub staff report / Published July 9, 2013 U.S. Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski joined Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health; Paul B. Rothman, dean of the medical faculty and CEO of Johns Hopkins Medicine; and Ronald R. Peterson, president of The Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System and EVP of Johns Hopkins Medicine on Monday in calling for an end to federal spending cuts to biomedical research. Image caption: Paul B. Rothman, dean of the medical faculty and CEO of Johns Hopkins Medicine "We join together to call for the full funding of the National Institutes of Health," said Mikulski, chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and an East Baltimore native. "We want to say no to the $1.5 billion cut in sequester. We want
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/27/class-telescope-bennett-marriage/
Johns Hopkins astrophysics team builds telescope to study origins of the universe | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins astrophysics team builds telescope to study origins of the universe Video: Deirdre Hammer By Hub staff report / Published May 27, 2014 How did it all begin? That is the fundamental question that Johns Hopkins astrophysicists Charles Bennett and Tobias Marriage hope to shed light on with the latest project, the Cosmology Large-Angular Scale Surveyor—CLASS, for short—a telescope being built in labs at the university's Bloomberg Center for Physics and Astronomy. Their efforts are detailed in the new Summer 2014 issue of Arts & Sciences Magazine. "When we look at the sun, we see light that has been traveling to us for eight minutes, so we're not seeing what happened now, but eight minutes ago," Bennett explains. "When we look at Proxima Centauri, the next nearest star, we're seeing what it was like four years ago. It's a time machine. But this is the magic that lets us
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/08/15/charles-bennett-jansky-prize/
Johns Hopkins astrophysicist Charles Bennett receives 2013 Jansky Prize | Hub
Latarsha Gatlin
Johns Hopkins astrophysicist Charles Bennett receives 2013 Jansky Prize Award recognizes contributions in the advancement of radio astronomy By Latarsha Gatlin / Published Aug 15, 2013 Johns Hopkins University astrophysicist Charles L. Bennett has been selected to receive the 2013 Jansky Prize for his leadership in the establishment of precision cosmology through studies of the Cosmic Microwave Background radiation. Image caption: Charles Bennett Bennett, the Alumni Centennial Professor of Physics and Astronomy, is the first Johns Hopkins faculty member to receive the honor. The Karl G. Jansky Lectureship was established in 1966 to recognize outstanding contributions in the advancement of radio astronomy. The National Radio Astronomy Observatory, an affiliate of the National Science Foundation, sponsors the prestigious award. Previous Jansky Lecturers have been some of the most renowned astrophysicists in the history of the field and include numerous Nobel Prize winners, including Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, William Fowler, Joseph Taylor, and Arno
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/02/12/euclid-space-telescope/
Johns Hopkins astrophysicists join ambitious Euclid space telescope project | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Johns Hopkins astrophysicists join ambitious Euclid space telescope project Menard, Bennett will help investigate dark mysteries of the universe Credit: Artist's rendering courtesy of European Space Agency By Phil Sneiderman / Published Feb 12, 2013 Johns Hopkins astrophysicists Brice M&eacute;nard and Charles L. Bennett have been appointed to the Euclid Consortium, the international team of scientists overseeing an ambitious space telescope project designed to probe the mysteries of dark energy and dark matter. NASA, a partner in the mission, recently announced their selection to the research team for Euclid. Image caption: Astrophysicist Brice Ménard was named Outstanding Young Scientist of 2012 by the Maryland Academy of Sciences for his research in extragalactic astrophysics and cosmology. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University The European Space Agency (ESA) is leading the mission, which is scheduled to launch in 2020. A recent announcement about the ESA-NASA partnership said that Euclid's telescope
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/07/11/adam-riess-innovation/
Nobel Prize winner Adam Riess driven by focus | Hub
Mike Field
Nobel Prize winner Adam Riess driven by focus Innovative pairing of one discovery to something thought to be unrelated is often the best way to advance science, he says By Mike Field / Published July 11, 2012 This article is part of the Provost's Project on Innovation series Image caption: Adam Riess, the Krieger-Eisenhower Professor in Physics and Astronomy at Johns Hopkins, received the Nobel Prize in Physics October 2011 for his discovery that the expansion rate of the universe is accelerating, a phenomenon widely attributed to a mysterious, unexplained "dark energy" filling the universe. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Nobel laureate Adam Riess understands the power of focus. The Krieger-Eisenhower Professor in Physics and Astronomy and Space Telescope Science Institute scientist tells a story about coming up with a great idea while swimming laps, noting almost parenthetically that it came to him in that seemingly inauspicious
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/10/26/menard-young-scientist/
 Astrophysicist Menard named Outstanding Young Scientist | Hub
Lisa De Nike
Astrophysicist Menard named Outstanding Young Scientist Maryland Academy of Sciences award program was established in 1959 By Lisa De Nike / Published Oct 26, 2012 Astrophysicist Brice M&eacute;nard of the Johns Hopkins University has been selected by the Maryland Academy of Sciences as the Outstanding Young Scientist of 2012. He received the award at a ceremony at the Maryland Science Center earlier this week. M&eacute;nard, an assistant professor in the Henry A. Rowland Department of Physics and Astronomy, was recognized for his research in extragalactic astrophysics and cosmology. Image caption: Astrophysicist Brice Ménard was named Outstanding Young Scientist of 2012 by the Maryland Academy of Sciences for his research in extragalactic astrophysics and cosmology. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University The award program was established in 1959 to recognize and celebrate the extraordinary contributions of young Maryland researchers across all fields of science. Many previous recipients have gone
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/12/21/wmap-results-released/
WMAP team to release full results of groundbreaking space study | Hub
Lisa De Nike
WMAP team to release full results of groundbreaking space study Mission revolutionized our understanding of universe By Lisa De Nike / Published Dec 21, 2012 Since its launch in 2001, the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) space mission has revolutionized our view of the universe, establishing a cosmological model that explains a widely diverse collection of astronomical observations. Led by Johns Hopkins astrophysicist Charles L. Bennett, the WMAP science team has determined, with a high degree of accuracy and precision, not only the age of the universe but also the density of atoms; the density of all other non-atomic matter; the epoch when the first stars started to shine; the "lumpiness" of the universe; and how that "lumpiness" depends on scale size. In short, when used alone (with no other measurements), WMAP observations have made our knowledge of those six parameters about 68,000 times more precise, thereby converting cosmology from
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/18/big-bang-inflation-discovery/
Johns Hopkins cosmologist shares in excitement over Big Bang breakthrough | Hub
Latarsha Gatlin
Johns Hopkins cosmologist shares in excitement over Big Bang breakthrough Kamionkowski first predicted cosmic inflation signature nearly 20 years ago Image caption: The sun sets behind BICEP2, in the foreground, and the South Pole Telescope. Credit: Steffen Richter, Harvard University By Latarsha Gatlin / Published March 18, 2014 A team of observational cosmologists may have found evidence that cosmic inflation occurred a fraction of a second after the Big Bang by detecting a signature pattern that was predicted 18 years ago by Johns Hopkins University cosmologist and theoretical physicist Marc Kamionkowski. Image caption: Marc Kamionkowski Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University At a news conference Monday at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge, Mass., researchers announced the first direct evidence for this sudden and vast expansion of the universe. Their data also represent the first images of gravitational waves, or ripples in space-time. These waves have been
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/15/food-allergies-inner-city-children/
Food allergies more widespread among inner-city children, study shows | Hub
Hub staff report
Food allergies more widespread among inner-city children, study shows One in 10 children in study allergic to milk, eggs, or peanuts By Hub staff report / Published Aug 15, 2014 Young inner-city children, who are already known to have a higher-than-usual risk of asthma and environmental allergies, also appear to suffer disproportionately from food allergies, according to results of a study led by scientists at the Johns Hopkins Children's Center. The multi-center study, described online Aug. 13 in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, found that at least one in 10 children from four large U.S. cities has a food allergy. The true number may be even higher, researchers say, because the study used highly stringent criteria and counted only the three most common food allergies—milk, eggs, or peanuts "Our findings are a wake-up call, signaling an urgent need to unravel the causes, contributors, and mechanisms that drive the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/15/hurricane-power-outages-modeling/
Power grids in coastal U.S. cities increasingly at risk due to climate change | Hub
Jill Rosen
Power grids in coastal U.S. cities increasingly at risk due to climate change Johns Hopkins model shows hurricane-related power outage vulnerability By Jill Rosen / Published Dec 15, 2014 Cities such as Miami are all too familiar with hurricane-related power outages. But a Johns Hopkins University analysis finds climate change will give other major metropolitan areas a lot to worry about in the future. Johns Hopkins engineers created a computer model to predict the increasing vulnerability of power grids in major coastal cities during hurricanes. By factoring historic hurricane information with plausible scenarios for future storm behavior, the team determined which of 27 cities, from Texas to Maine, will become more susceptible to blackouts from future hurricanes. The list of cities most likely to see big increases in power outage risk is topped by New York City; Philadelphia; Jacksonville, Florida; Virginia Beach, Virginia; and Hartford, Connecticut. Cities at the bottom
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/06/daniels-pnas-research-funding/
Decline in grants for young researchers puts future of science at risk, Johns Hopkins president writes | Hub
Jill Rosen
Decline in grants for young researchers puts future of science at risk, Johns Hopkins president writes Daniels urges policy reforms, increased NIH funding in 'PNAS' article By Jill Rosen / Published Jan 6, 2015 America's youngest scientists, increasingly losing research dollars, are leaving the academic biomedical workforce, a brain drain that poses grave risks for the future of science, according to an article published this week by Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels. Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels The article, which appears in the online Early Edition of the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, illustrates how for more than a generation, grants for young scientists have declined. The number of principal investigators with a leading National Institutes of Health grant who are 36 years old or younger dropped from 18 percent in 1983 to 3 percent in 2010. Meanwhile, the average age when a scientist
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/21/rethinking-inner-city-asthma/
Johns Hopkins experts challenge belief that city living raises asthma risk | Hub
Ekaterina Pesheva and Lauren Nelson
Johns Hopkins experts challenge belief that city living raises asthma risk Study: Race, ethnicity, income may be more significant factors than physical surroundings By Ekaterina Pesheva and Lauren Nelson / Published Jan 21, 2015 Challenging the long-standing belief that city dwellers suffer disproportionately from asthma, the results of a new Johns Hopkins Children's Center study of more than 23,000 U.S. children reveal that income, race, and ethnic origin may play far more potent roles in asthma risk than kids' physical surroundings. The study, based on comparison of childhood asthma rates in cities and outside of them, found no differences in asthma risk between children living in urban areas and their suburban and rural counterparts. The findings, published online Jan. 20 in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, showed a surprisingly uneven distribution of asthma—one that fails to follow traditional patterns of urban and nonurban residence, the team says. Significantly,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/23/feigenson-nas-troland-research-award/
Johns Hopkins brain researcher Lisa Feigenson honored by National Academy of Sciences | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins brain researcher Lisa Feigenson honored by National Academy of Sciences She receives $75,000 Troland Research Award for her ongoing investigation of early brain development, number sense By Hub staff report / Published Jan 23, 2015 Johns Hopkins University brain researcher Lisa Feigenson was one of four researchers honored today by the National Academy of Sciences in recognition of their extraordinary scientific achievements in neuroscience and psychological and cognitive sciences. Image caption: Lisa Feigenson Feigenson, a professor in the university's Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, explores the fundamental processes of human cognition and memory by testing the limits on what infants and children are able to understand about numbers and the processes that underlie that understanding. She joined Yael Niv, an assistant professor of psychology and neuroscience at Princeton University, in receive 2015 Troland Research Awards, two $75,000 awards given annually to recognize unusual achievement by young investigators
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/07/preschoolers-algebra-research/
Are you smarter than a 5-year-old? Preschoolers can do algebra, Johns Hopkins study shows | Hub
Latarsha Gatlin
Are you smarter than a 5-year-old? Preschoolers can do algebra, Johns Hopkins study shows Psychologists say kids rely on their innate number sense to solve for x Video: David Schmelick By Latarsha Gatlin / Published March 7, 2014 Millions of high school and college algebra students are united in a shared agony over solving for x and y. For those to whom the answers don't come easily, it gets worse: Most preschoolers and kindergartners can do some algebra well before entering a math class. In a recent study described in the journal Developmental Science, lead author and postdoctoral fellow Melissa Kibbe and Lisa Feigenson, associate professor of psychological and brain sciences at Johns Hopkins University's Krieger School of Arts and Sciences, found that most preschoolers and kindergartners—children between 4 and 6—can do basic algebra naturally. "These very young children, some of whom are just learning to count, and few of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/06/26/halberda-numbers/
Study gives insight into our inborn sense for numbers | Hub
Lisa DeNike
Study gives insight into our inborn sense for numbers Research using data collected online sheds light on how people's cognitive abilities change over time Image caption: Justin Halberda, an associate professor of psychological and brain sciences in the Krieger School of Arts and Sciences, led a groundbreaking study that offers insight how our basic cognitive abilities may change across our lifetime. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Lisa DeNike / Published June 26, 2012 A first-of-its kind study using the Internet to collect data from more than 10,000 study subjects ages 11 to 85 found that humans' inborn "number sense" improves during school years, declines during old age, and remains linked throughout the entire lifespan to academic mathematics achievement. The study, led by psychologist Justin Halberda of The Johns Hopkins University and published in the online Early Edition of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences during
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/26/nfl-players-concussion-research/
Johns Hopkins study of retired NFL players sheds light on concussion-related brain damage  | Hub
Marin Hedin
Johns Hopkins study of retired NFL players sheds light on concussion-related brain damage Research provides further evidence of potential long-term neurological risks to football players who sustain repeated head injuries By Marin Hedin / Published Jan 26, 2015 A team of Johns Hopkins specialists has gathered evidence of accumulated brain damage in former NFL players that could be linked to specific memory deficits experienced decades after the men stopped playing the game. Image caption: The brain of a 66-year-old former NFL player shows increased binding of the translocator protein across many brain regions compared to binding seen in healthy controls. Image credit: Johns Hopkins Medicine The small study, which involved imaging and cognitive tests of nine former NFL players, provides further evidence of the potential long-term neurological risks to football players who sustain repeated concussions. It also strengthens the argument of those calling for better player protections. Results of the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/27/catalyst-discovery-awards-faculty-research/
New Johns Hopkins awards to provide $15M to support faculty-led research | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
New Johns Hopkins awards to provide $15M to support faculty-led research Funding will target early-career faculty, cross-university projects By Phil Sneiderman / Published Jan 27, 2015 Johns Hopkins University today announced two new award programs that together will provide an additional $15 million to advance innovative faculty-led research over the next three years. The expanded university funding is aimed at promising early-career scholars and at organizers of ambitious research projects proposed by teams that involve more than one Johns Hopkins division or affiliate. These new internal financial awards are urgently needed to make up for declining research funds from traditional government sources, such as the National Institutes of Health, university officials said. "The academic leadership at the university wants our faculty to know how inspired by and supportive we are of the work they do to expand the horizons of knowledge," Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels said. "These
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/06/presidents-frontier-award-announced/
President's Frontier Award to support exceptional Johns Hopkins faculty | Hub
Hub staff report
President's Frontier Award to support exceptional Johns Hopkins faculty $250,000 award to be given each spring through 2019 By Hub staff report / Published Oct 6, 2014 The university has a new way to support its exceptional scholars who are on the cusp of transforming their fields. The Johns Hopkins University President's Frontier Award of $250,000 will be given each year to a faculty member who demonstrates significant scholarly achievement and shows exceptional promise for important future work. President Ronald J. Daniels and Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs Robert C. Lieberman made the announcement today in an email to faculty, staff, and students. The award is being established with a $1.25 million donation from trustee Louis J. Forster, A&S '82, SAIS '83, and Kathleen M. Pike, SAIS Bol '81 (Dipl), A&S '82, '83 (MA). "We are very grateful for Lou and Kathy's generosity, which enables us to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/28/daniels-research-kojo-nnamdi/
JHU's Daniels to discuss decline in funding for young scientists on WAMU's 'The Kojo Nnamdi Show' | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU's Daniels to discuss decline in funding for young scientists on WAMU's 'The Kojo Nnamdi Show' Hour-long segment will air Thursday beginning at noon By Hub staff report / Published Jan 28, 2015 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels will be a guest Thursday on a WAMU's The Kojo Nnamdi Show, where he will discuss the decline in federal research funding for young scientists. Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels The hour-long segment will air live beginning at noon on WAMU-FM 88.5; it can be heard online at http://thekojonnamdishow.org. Daniels will be joined by Sally J. Rockey, deputy director for extramural research at the National Institutes of Health in Washington, D.C.; and Rebecca Riggins, assistant professor of oncology at Georgetown University's Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center. More information Earlier this month, Daniels authored an article in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in which he noted that
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/28/gerecht-presidents-frontier-award/
Johns Hopkins stem cell researcher Sharon Gerecht receives inaugural President's Frontier Award | Hub
Sandy Alexander
Johns Hopkins stem cell researcher Sharon Gerecht receives inaugural President's Frontier Award $250,000 prize will support her work on tissue repair, regeneration Video: David Schmelick and Len Turner By Sandy Alexander / Published Jan 28, 2015 Sharon Gerecht says that scientists always have different paths they would like to take with their research, but they usually have to stick to the roadmap for which they have funding. Today, she was encouraged to break new ground in stem cell biology when Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels and Provost Robert C. Lieberman presented her with the inaugural President's Frontier Award in the amount of $250,000. Image caption: Sharon Gerecht "Now we have the opportunity to go in new directions, which is great," she says. "I am very happy, and I am humbled." Gerecht was surprised when the president, provost, division leaders, and other colleagues arrived during her meeting with students
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/03/06/hopkins-snow-days/
Photos: Snow days at Johns Hopkins University | Hub
Hub staff report
Photos: Snow days at Johns Hopkins University Snow, record cold prompt university to close for second consecutive day By Hub staff report / Published March 6, 2015 Johns Hopkins University was closed for the second consecutive day Friday following a winter storm that dropped 6 to 10 inches of snow across the area on Thursday. The weather-related closures are the first this winter for the university. Snowfall began soon after daybreak on Thursday and continued through the evening. The storm also ushered in bitterly cold temperatures—nearby Baltimore Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport recorded a low of 10 degrees this morning, a record low temperature for March 6. For information about weather-related changes to university operations, visit JHU's Emergency Alert web page. Posted in University News Tagged weather Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/01/mercury-levels-dolphins-singapore/
Dolphin study could yield insight into how mercury influences health | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Dolphin study could yield insight into how mercury influences health Johns Hopkins researchers partner with Singapore's Resorts World Sentosa to study Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins with controlled diets Credit: Resorts World Sentosa By Phil Sneiderman / Published April 1, 2015 Johns Hopkins environmental scientists are collaborating with researchers from Dolphin Island at Resorts World Sentosa in Singapore to learn more about how and where mercury accumulates in the bodies of Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins. The partnership was formed because aquariums and zoological institutions are uniquely qualified to conduct research involving aquatic animals in their care in order to help protect and conserve wild populations of similar animals—in this case, dolphins. It is very difficult to obtain critical data on populations in nature due to difficulties in gathering details on diet, overall health, and related issues. The researchers are analyzing blood samples and health records from 10 dolphins that have been under the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/02/surprise-babies-learning/
Element of surprise helps babies learn best, Johns Hopkins researchers say | Hub
Jill Rosen
Element of surprise helps babies learn best, Johns Hopkins researchers say Infants seek out more information about objects that defy expectations Video: Dave Schmelick, Len Turner, Deirdre Hammer By Jill Rosen / Published April 2, 2015 Infants have innate knowledge about the world, and when their expectations are defied, they learn best, researchers at Johns Hopkins University found. In a paper that will be published Friday in the journal Science, cognitive psychologists Aimee E. Stahl and Lisa Feigenson demonstrate for the first time that babies learn new things by leveraging the core information with which they are born. When something surprises a baby, like an object not behaving the way she expects it to, she not only focuses on that object but ultimately learns more about it than from a similar yet predictable object. "For young learners, the world is an incredibly complex place filled with dynamic stimuli. How do
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/13/bennett-tomassoni-chisesi-prize/
Johns Hopkins astrophysicist Charles Bennett wins 2015 Tomassoni Chisesi Prize | Hub
Jon Schroeder
Johns Hopkins astrophysicist Charles Bennett wins 2015 Tomassoni Chisesi Prize Award recognizes leadership in two experiments that reshaped our view of the universe Image caption: Charles Bennett Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Jon Schroeder / Published May 13, 2015 Charles L. Bennett, the Alumni Centennial Professor of Physics and Astronomy and Gilman Scholar in the Krieger School of Arts and Sciences at Johns Hopkins University, will receive the 2015 "Caterina Tomassoni and Felice Pietro Chisesi Prize" in June at the University of Roma "La Sapienz" in Italy. The Tomassoni Chisesi Prize committee awarded Bennett the Prize for "leadership in two experiments on the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) that literally changed our view of the universe: Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE), leading to the discovery of primordial spatial fluctuations in the CMB, and Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP), leading to precise measurements of the cosmological parameters and establishing the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/22/asthma-prostate-cancer-study/
Asthmatics have less risk of fatal prostate cancer, Johns Hopkins research suggests | Hub
Hub staff report
Asthmatics have less risk of fatal prostate cancer, Johns Hopkins research suggests By Hub staff report / Published May 22, 2015 Men with a history of asthma appear to be less likely to develop lethal prostate cancer, Johns Hopkins researchers found in a recent study. The study, published in The International Journal of Cancer, presents an interesting contradiction to past research linking prostate cancer with the type of inflammation found with asthma. The new study discovered that males with a history of asthma were 29 percent less likely to be diagnosed with prostate cancer that spread or became fatal. Overall, asthmatic men were 36 percent less likely to die of the disease. But it's too early to conclude that asthma may in some way protect men from prostate cancer, cautions Elizabeth A. Platz, co-leader of the Cancer Prevention and Control Program at the John Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center. "We don't
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/28/electricity-systems-reliability/
Analysis finds shortcomings in regulation of reliability of U.S. electricity systems | Hub
Jill Rosen
Analysis finds shortcomings in regulation of reliability of U.S. electricity systems Utilities don't have sufficient incentive to ensure reliable service, particularly during major storms, Johns Hopkins researchers say By Jill Rosen / Published May 28, 2015 The reliability of electricity systems in the United States is so haphazardly regulated, it's nearly impossible for customers to know their true risk of losing service in a major storm, a Johns Hopkins University analysis found. Though weather-related outages have risen over the past decade and research shows extreme weather events will occur with more frequency and intensity in the future, power providers do not necessarily have to report storm-related outages, leaving customers with an incomplete picture of the system's reliability and potentially limiting efforts to improve system reliability, researchers concluded in a paper published Wednesday in the journal _Risk Analysis. "Is a power outage due to a … weather event any less disruptive
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/08/new-horizons-pluto-distance/
Video: How far has New Horizons traveled on its journey to Pluto? | Hub
Dale Keiger
Video: How far has New Horizons traveled on its journey to Pluto? Spacecraft built, operated by JHU's Applied Physics Laboratory and launched in 2006 will make closest approach to distant planet on July 14 Video: Greg Stanley By Dale Keiger / Published July 8, 2015 Almost 10 years ago, the New Horizons spacecraft launched on its way to Pluto. A few days from now, it finally arrives and gets to work on a week of intense science as it sails past the most distant known planetary body in the solar system. How long has the trip been? When New Horizons launched, the iPhone didn't exist, Barack Obama was a largely unknown U.S. senator, and Pluto had not yet been designated a dwarf planet. Watch this animation to get a feel for how far New Horizons has voyaged. Talk about a long commute. Posted in Science+Technology Tagged applied physics laboratory, space
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/13/how-big-is-pluto/
How big is Pluto? Turns out it's bigger than scientists thought | Hub
Hub staff report
How big is Pluto? Turns out it's bigger than scientists thought New Horizons settles decades-long debate over dwarf planet's size Image caption: Tantalizing signs of geology on Pluto are revealed in this image from New Horizons taken on July 9, 2015 from 3.3 million miles away. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 13, 2015 NASA's New Horizons mission has answered one of the most basic questions about Pluto—how big is it? Mission scientists have found Pluto to be 1,473 miles in diameter, somewhat larger than many prior estimates. Images acquired with the spacecraft's Long Range Reconnaissance Imager, or LORRI, were used to make this determination, confirming what was already suspected: Pluto is larger than all other known solar system objects beyond the orbit of Neptune. "The size of Pluto has been debated since its discovery in 1930," said mission scientist Bill
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/09/new-pluto-picture/
Pluto shows its heart ahead of New Horizons close-up | Hub
Hub staff report
Pluto shows its heart ahead of New Horizons close-up Spacecraft beams back pictures of dwarf planet's features Image caption: In the early morning hours of July 8, 2015, mission scientists received this new view of Pluto—the most detailed yet by New Horizons. The image was taken on July 7, when the NASA spacecraft was just under five million miles from Pluto. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 9, 2015 A heart, a whale, and a doughnut—that's what scientists are calling the features they're spotting on Pluto as the New Horizons spacecraft gets closer. Next week we'll be able to see detailed close-ups of the icy dwarf planet for the first time ever, as the spacecraft makes its historic flyby after a long journey nearly 10 years and billions of miles in the making. Engineers at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/08/new-horizons-pluto-distance
 Video: How far has New Horizons traveled on its journey to Pluto? | Hub
Dale Keiger
Video: How far has New Horizons traveled on its journey to Pluto? Spacecraft built, operated by JHU's Applied Physics Laboratory and launched in 2006 will make closest approach to distant planet on July 14 Video: Greg Stanley By Dale Keiger / Published July 8, 2015 Almost 10 years ago, the New Horizons spacecraft launched on its way to Pluto. A few days from now, it finally arrives and gets to work on a week of intense science as it sails past the most distant known planetary body in the solar system. How long has the trip been? When New Horizons launched, the iPhone didn't exist, Barack Obama was a largely unknown U.S. senator, and Pluto had not yet been designated a dwarf planet. Watch this animation to get a feel for how far New Horizons has voyaged. Talk about a long commute. Posted in Science+Technology Tagged applied physics laboratory, space
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/06/new-horizons-pluto-anomaly/
Scientists briefly lose contact with New Horizons, but Pluto flyby remains on track | Hub
Hub staff report
Scientists briefly lose contact with New Horizons, but Pluto flyby remains on track Spacecraft will make closest approach to distant planet on July 14 Video: Greg Stanley By Hub staff report / Published July 6, 2015 NASA's New Horizons mission has returned to normal operations and remains on schedule for its flyby of Pluto next week after an operational anomaly over the weekend briefly caused scientists to lose contact with the distant spacecraft. On Saturday, just before 2 p.m. EDT, the mission operations center at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory lost contact with the unmanned craft. During that time, the autonomous autopilot on board the spacecraft recognized a problem and—as it's programmed to do in such a situation—switched from the main to the backup computer. The autopilot placed the spacecraft in "safe mode" and commanded the backup computer to reinitiate communication with Earth. New Horizons then began to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/02/new-horizons-pluto-encounter/
New Horizons spacecraft set to wake up for long-awaited Pluto encounter | Hub
Hub staff report
New Horizons spacecraft set to wake up for long-awaited Pluto encounter Spacecraft designed, built, operated at JHU Applied Physics Lab Image caption: Artist's concept of the New Horizons spacecraft as it approaches Pluto and its three moons in the summer of 2015. Credit: ohns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory/Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published Dec 2, 2014 NASA's New Horizons spacecraft comes out of hibernation this week for a long-anticipated six-month encounter with the dwarf planet Pluto at the outer reaches of the solar system. "New Horizons is healthy and cruising quietly through deep space, nearly three billion miles from home, but its rest is nearly over," says Alice Bowman, New Horizons mission operations manager at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory. "It's time for New Horizons to wake up, get to work, and start making history." Since launching in January 2006, New Horizons has spent
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/13/new-horizons-pluto-moon/
New Horizons snaps historic photos of Pluto's largest moon in motion | Hub
Hub staff report
New Horizons snaps historic photos of Pluto's largest moon in motion By Hub staff report / Published Aug 13, 2014 An instrument aboard NASA's New Horizon's spacecraft has given us a distant first glimpse of the Pluto system in advance of the craft's historic encounter with the on-again off-again planet and its moons next summer. The 12 images, captured by the Long Range Reconnaissance Imager, show one full rotation of Charon, the largest of Pluto's five moons. The images were taken July 19-24 from a distance ranging from about 267 million to 262 million miles. Charon is orbiting approximately 11,200 miles above Pluto's surface. Pluto's four smaller moons—Nix, Hydra, Styx, and Kerberos—are too faint to be seen in these distant images, but will begin to appear in images taken next year as the spacecraft speeds closer to its target, researchers said. "The image sequence showing Charon revolving around Pluto set
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/02/05/pluto-pictures-new-horizons/
New Horizons spacecraft beams back new pictures of Pluto | Hub
Michael Buckley
New Horizons spacecraft beams back new pictures of Pluto Release of images coincides with birthday of Clyde Tombaugh, late astronomer who first spotted distant planet 85 years ago Image caption: A comparison of images of Pluto and its large moon Charon, taken in July 2014 and January 2015. Between takes, New Horizons had more than halved its distance to Pluto, from about 264 million miles to 126 million miles. Credit: NASA/Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory/Southwest Research Institute By Michael Buckley / Published Feb 5, 2015 Pluto discoverer Clyde Tombaugh could only dream of a spacecraft flying past the small planet he spotted on the edges of the solar system in 1930. Yet the newest views of Pluto from NASA's approaching New Horizons probe—released Wednesday, on the late American astronomer's birthday—hint at just how close that dream is to coming true. Tombaugh, who died in 1997, was born on Feb.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/10/new-horizons-pluto-charon-photos/
Pluto and Charon: A tale of two very different distant worlds | Hub
Hub staff report
Pluto and Charon: A tale of two very different distant worlds Scientists learning more about dwarf planet and its mysterious moon as New Horizons spacecraft zooms closer Image caption: New Horizons was about 3.7 million miles from Pluto and Charon when it snapped this portrait late on July 8, 2015. Color information obtained earlier in the mission has been added. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 10, 2015 They're a fascinating pair, Pluto and Charon, two icy worlds, spinning around a common center of gravity like a pair of figure skaters clasping hands. New images from NASA's New Horizons spacecraft—designed, built, and operated by the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory—are yielding new insights into these distant worlds at the edge of our solar system. Scientists believe they were shaped by a cosmic collision billions of years ago, and yet, in many
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/13/pluto-images-geology-new-horizons/
Cliffs, craters, mysterious dark areas: New photos of Pluto from New Horizons reveal planet's geology | Hub
Hub staff report
Cliffs, craters, mysterious dark areas: New photos of Pluto from New Horizons reveal planet's geology Scientists analyze images, data as spacecraft moves within 1 million miles of distant dwarf planet, historic flyby Image caption: Pluto as seen from the New Horizons spacecraft on July 11, 2015. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 13, 2015 It began as a point of light. Then, it evolved into a fuzzy orb. Now, in its latest portrait from NASA's New Horizons spacecraft, Pluto is being revealed as an intriguing new world with distinct surface features, including an immense dark band known as the "whale." As the unmanned New Horizons spacecraft speeds closer to its historic July 14 Pluto flyby, it's continuing to multi-task, producing images of an icy world that's growing more fascinating and complex every day. On Saturday, New Horizons captured this image, which
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/09/new-pluto-picture
 Pluto shows its heart ahead of New Horizons close-up | Hub
Hub staff report
Pluto shows its heart ahead of New Horizons close-up Spacecraft beams back pictures of dwarf planet's features Image caption: In the early morning hours of July 8, 2015, mission scientists received this new view of Pluto—the most detailed yet by New Horizons. The image was taken on July 7, when the NASA spacecraft was just under five million miles from Pluto. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 9, 2015 A heart, a whale, and a doughnut—that's what scientists are calling the features they're spotting on Pluto as the New Horizons spacecraft gets closer. Next week we'll be able to see detailed close-ups of the icy dwarf planet for the first time ever, as the spacecraft makes its historic flyby after a long journey nearly 10 years and billions of miles in the making. Engineers at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/14/new-horizons-pluto-flyby-just-incredible/
Space odyssey: New Horizons completes historic, three-billion-mile journey to Pluto | Hub
Hub staff report
Space odyssey: New Horizons completes historic, three-billion-mile journey to Pluto Scientists await transmission confirming that spacecraft survived flyby Image caption: Pluto nearly fills the frame in this image from the Long Range Reconnaissance Imager (LORRI) aboard NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft, taken on July 13, 2015, when the spacecraft was 476,000 miles from the surface. This is the last and most detailed image sent to Earth before the spacecraft’s closest approach to Pluto on July 14. The color image has been combined with lower-resolution color information from the Ralph instrument that was acquired earlier on July 13. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 14, 2015 NASA's New Horizons spacecraft has passed Pluto. Image caption: Members of the New Horizons science team react to seeing the spacecraft's last and sharpest image of Pluto before closest approach later in the day on Tuesday, July
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/14/pluto-photos-new-horizons/
Pluto photos: Our solar system's most distant planet, as seen from NASA's New Horizons | Hub
Hub staff report
Pluto photos: Our solar system's most distant planet, as seen from NASA's New Horizons Spacecraft completes flyby, making closest approach at 7:49 a.m. EDT By Hub staff report / Published July 14, 2015 After more than nine years and three billion miles, NASA's New Horizons spacecraft whizzed past Pluto this morning, making its closest approach to the distant dwarf planet at 7:49 a.m. EDT. The images and data captured along the way have given scientists new insights into the outermost planet in our solar system and its largest moon, Charon. New Horizons passed Pluto at 30,800 miles per hour with its suite of seven science instruments busily gathering data. The mission completes the initial reconnaissance of the solar system with the first-ever look at the icy dwarf planet. The video below captures the historic moment as it happened at JHU's Applied Physics Laboratory. The moment of #PlutoFlyBy ! https://t.co/QNbEtrPSKn— Scott
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/08/catcher-injuries-baseball/
Most MLB catcher injuries aren't caused by home plate collisions, study finds | Hub
Hub staff report
Most MLB catcher injuries aren't caused by home plate collisions, study finds Johns Hopkins-led research team finds bats, foul balls pose greater risks By Hub staff report / Published Sept 8, 2015 Contrary to popular belief, the worst injuries baseball catchers face on the field come from errant bats and foul balls, not home-plate collisions with base runners, according to findings of a study led by researchers at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. The research, done in collaboration with Baltimore Orioles trainers Brian Ebel and Richard Bancells, involved analysis of all catcher injuries during Major League Baseball games over a 10-year period. A summary of the findings, published ahead of print in The American Journal of Sports Medicine, reveals that only a small fraction of injuries sustained by catchers—fewer than 15 percent—were the result of collisions with another player. These contact injuries, the investigators report, were often neither
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/30/early-universe-class-telescope-chile/
High-powered JHU telescope designed to explore origins of universe moving toward 'first light' | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
High-powered JHU telescope designed to explore origins of universe moving toward 'first light' Two-story CLASS telescope will be packed up, reassembled in Chile Video: Deirdre Hammer By Arthur Hirsch / Published Sept 30, 2015 An effort to peer into the origins of the universe with the most effective instrument ever used in the effort is taking a big step forward, as Johns Hopkins University scientists begin shipping a two-story-tall microwave telescope to its base in Chile. Pieces of the Cosmology Large Angular Scale Surveyor telescope—also known as CLASS—will soon be packed in a 40-foot container and sent south, as scientists get closer to taking observations of a faint, ancient electromagnetic energy that pervades the sky, holding clues about how the universe began. Charles L. Bennett, professor of physics and astronomy and Johns Hopkins Gilman Scholar, is the project leader. "It's going to be great to work our way toward first
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/12/fracking-pregnancy-risks/
Johns Hopkins study links fracking to premature births, high-risk pregnancies | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins study links fracking to premature births, high-risk pregnancies Researchers look at nearly 11,000 births in north, central Pennsylvania By Hub staff report / Published Oct 12, 2015 Expectant mothers who live near fracking wells in Pennsylvania face greater risks of premature births and high-risk pregnancies, according to a study from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. The findings, published online recently in the journal Epidemiology, shed light on some of the possible adverse health outcomes associated with fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, a well-stimulation technique that has boomed over the past decade. In Pennsylvania, the fracking industry now operates more than 8,000 active natural gas wells—up from 100 in 2006. "The growth in the fracking industry has gotten way out ahead of our ability to assess what the environmental and, just as importantly, public health impacts are," says study leader Brian S. Schwartz, a professor in the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/12/rales-foundation-health-schools/
Program aims to boost classroom achievement in Baltimore by addressing basic health needs | Hub
Eketarina Pesheva
Program aims to boost classroom achievement in Baltimore by addressing basic health needs Johns Hopkins Children's Center, Norman and Ruth Rales Foundation launch center devoted to improving students access to health care By Eketarina Pesheva / Published Nov 12, 2015 Children suffering from chronic conditions, like asthma or diabetes, are more likely to miss school and lag behind academically. There is now strong evidence suggesting health problems in childhood can also thwart lifelong success well beyond the classroom—an achievement gap that can be made even wider by higher rates of chronic illness in low-income communities. To address this gap, Johns Hopkins Children's Center pediatricians and the Norman and Ruth Rales Foundation are joining forces with educators to create what they say will be the most comprehensive, fully integrated school-based health program in the country. The $5 million Ruth and Norman Rales Center for the Integration of Health and Education, headquartered
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/15/drug-resistant-tuberculosis-child/
Johns Hopkins pediatricians successfully treat child with drug-resistant tuberculosis | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins pediatricians successfully treat child with drug-resistant tuberculosis Case highlights challenges of pediatric tuberculosis, need for creative approaches By Hub staff report / Published Nov 15, 2015 Specialists at the Johns Hopkins Children's Center have successfully treated a case of extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis in a young child, now 5. Their report on the challenging case, published Monday in The Lancet Infectious Diseases, provides the first detailed account of diagnosing and treating a young child in the United States with the highly virulent form of tuberculosis, known as XDR TB. The bug's resistance to most known TB drugs makes it particularly difficult to treat in anyone, but even more so in children, the Hopkins team says. Medical literature worldwide only describes a handful of cases in children younger than 5. "We are thrilled that our patient is doing so well," says TB expert Sanjay Jain, a pediatrician at the Johns
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/26/rapid-plankton-growth-could-signal-climate-change/
Rapid plankton growth in ocean seen as sign of carbon dioxide loading | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
Rapid plankton growth in ocean seen as sign of carbon dioxide loading Johns Hopkins-led study suggests faster ecosystem change than predicted By Arthur Hirsch / Published Nov 26, 2015 A microscopic marine alga is thriving in the North Atlantic to an extent that defies scientific predictions, suggesting swift environmental change as a result of increased carbon dioxide in the ocean, a study led by a Johns Hopkins University scientist has found. What these findings mean remains to be seen, as does whether the rapid growth in the tiny plankton's population is good or bad news for the planet. Published today in the journal Science, the study details a tenfold increase in the abundance of single-cell coccolithophores between 1965 and 2010, and a particularly sharp spike since the late 1990s in the population of these pale-shelled floating phytoplankton. Image caption: A scanning electron microscope image of a coccolithophore, which can measure
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/15/bloomberg-distinguished-professors-bennett-and-feinberg/
JHU's Charles Bennett and Andrew Feinberg named Bloomberg Distinguished Professors | Hub
Julie Messersmith
JHU's Charles Bennett and Andrew Feinberg named Bloomberg Distinguished Professors Image caption: Andrew Feinberg and Charles Bennett Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Julie Messersmith / Published Dec 15, 2015 One is exploring the origin and evolution of all of space; the other is floating in its simulated conditions to develop pioneering genetic sequencing techniques at zero gravity. Johns Hopkins' two newest Bloomberg Distinguished Professors are definitely out of this world. Charles "Chuck" Bennett, currently the Alumni Centennial Professor of Physics and Astronomy and Gilman Scholar in the Krieger School of Arts and Sciences, will be the first Bloomberg Distinguished Professor to hold a joint appointment with the Applied Physics Laboratory, as a senior scientist. In step with One University goals to foster interdisciplinary collaboration across divisions, Bennett will direct Space@Hopkins, a new space studies initiative. Space@Hopkins will unify space-related activities across the institution in robotics, astronaut health,
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/01/22/genes-cause-illness-feinberg
 Study: how genes cause illness | Hub
Hub staff report
Study: how genes cause illness Johns Hopkins researchers find that genes and their regulatory 'tags' conspire to promote rheumatoid arthritis By Hub staff report / Published Jan 22, 2013 In a joint study, published January 20 in Nature Biotechnology and discussed in The New York Times, researchers from the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden found that genes and their regulatory "tags" conspire to promote rheumatoid arthritis, an immune disorder affecting roughly 1.5 million American adults. Andrew Feinberg, King Fahd Professor of Molecular Medicine at Johns Hopkins and a lead author of the study, reports that the research team found hundreds of chemical tags but only four that seemed truly related to the disease. More from The New York Times: It was much more complicated than just studying genes themselves. Researchers know a gene will remain stable, but the chemical tags that turn the genes
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/02/12/euclid-space-telescope
 Johns Hopkins astrophysicists join ambitious Euclid space telescope project | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Johns Hopkins astrophysicists join ambitious Euclid space telescope project Menard, Bennett will help investigate dark mysteries of the universe Credit: Artist's rendering courtesy of European Space Agency By Phil Sneiderman / Published Feb 12, 2013 Johns Hopkins astrophysicists Brice M&eacute;nard and Charles L. Bennett have been appointed to the Euclid Consortium, the international team of scientists overseeing an ambitious space telescope project designed to probe the mysteries of dark energy and dark matter. NASA, a partner in the mission, recently announced their selection to the research team for Euclid. Image caption: Astrophysicist Brice Ménard was named Outstanding Young Scientist of 2012 by the Maryland Academy of Sciences for his research in extragalactic astrophysics and cosmology. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University The European Space Agency (ESA) is leading the mission, which is scheduled to launch in 2020. A recent announcement about the ESA-NASA partnership said that Euclid's telescope
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/25/new-tool-pinpoints-genetic-sources-of-disease
 New tool could help researchers pinpoint the genetic sources of disease  | Hub
Hub staff report
New tool could help researchers pinpoint the genetic sources of disease Overlay of genetic, epigenetic maps could yield insight, study suggests By Hub staff report / Published March 25, 2014 Many diseases have their origins either in the genome or in reversible chemical changes to DNA known as the epigenome. Now, results of a new study from Johns Hopkins scientists show a connection between these two maps. The findings, reported last week on the website of the American Journal of Human Genetics, could help disease trackers find patterns in those overlays that could offer clues to the causes of—and possible treatments for—complex genetic conditions, including many cancers and metabolic disorders. "By showing the connections between genetic variants and epigenetic information, we're providing epidemiologists with a road map," says Andrew Feinberg, professor of medicine and the director of the Center for Epigenetics at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. "Epigenetic
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/14/feinberg-rizzardi-zero-gravity-genetics
 Genomics at zero gravity: JHU researchers conduct experiments on NASA aircraft | Hub
Hub staff report
Genomics at zero gravity: JHU researchers conduct experiments on NASA aircraft By Hub staff report / Published Oct 14, 2015 After a series of tests conducted in NASA's reduced-gravity aircraft—the so-called "vomit comet"—two Johns Hopkins researchers have gathered the first evidence that genetic sequencing can be done in space. Image caption: Johns Hopkins researcher Andy Feinberg uses a positive displacement pipette to transfer fluid in zero gravity. Image credit: NASA/Regan Geeseman Last month, JHU geneticists Andrew Feinberg and Lindsay Rizzardi spent four days conducting experiments to test two key tools in zero-gravity conditions, Nature reported Tuesday. One tool could assist with long-term storage of genetic material; the other is a small, transportable genetic sequencer sent for testing by a colleague at Weill Cornell Medicine in New York City. They worked aboard a NASA aircraft that flies in sweeping parabolas to simulate the weightlessness of space. The zero-gravity maneuver lasts for
http://hub.jhu.edu/magazine/2012/spring/evolution-evolved
 Evolution, evolved | Hub
Michael Anft
Evolution, evolved Andrew Feinberg has a Big Idea that improves on Darwin's theory. But can he prove it? Credit: Brett Ryder By Michael Anft / Published Spring 2012 The scientist likes to tell stories, and boy, does he have a doozy. The tale is made richer by the almost-religious glow it is bathed in—an odd touch for a story about how he, a Darwinian molecular biologist, came up with a new idea about evolution. There's the "epiphany" he had three years ago in Westminster Abbey, the gothic structure in London that contains the graves of Charles Darwin and Isaac Newton, as well as a plaque memorializing physicist Paul Dirac, one of the fathers of quantum mechanics. As the narrator breathlessly sets the scene—with him at the center, standing on Darwin's modest, unadorned grave while admiring Newton's elaborate tomb next to it—a listener can almost envision a noir British fog lifting
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/andrew-feinberg/
 Andrew feinberg | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Andrew feinberg Faculty honors Five from JHU elected to AIMBE College of Fellows Published March 25, 2024 Recognition honors individuals who have made outstanding contributions to engineering and medicine research, practice, or education Study looks at how astronaut's body changed in space Published April 11, 2019 JHU's Andrew Feinberg finds that after year-long NASA mission to the International Space Station, astronaut Scott Kelly had no lingering, major epigenetic differences from his earthbound twin, Mark Epigenetics Decoding brain changes that coincide with psychiatric disorders Published Jan 22, 2019 Scientists discover epigenetic variances in neurons in parts of the brain linked with addictive behavior, schizophrenia, and other neuroses Epigenetics The nature and nurture of human illness Published Oct 25, 2016 Scientists seek better understanding of how genetic, environmental factors join forces to cause disease Interdisciplinary Two new Bloomberg Distinguished Professors Published Dec 15, 2015 Esteemed Johns Hopkins faculty members Charles
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/brice-menard/articles/
 Brice menard | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Brice menard President's Frontier Award Brice Ménard honored for groundbreaking research Published Feb 13, 2019 Video His work with data sets from astronomical observatories has helped transform his field Universal knowledge Award for astrophysicist Published Oct 15, 2014 Brice Ménard recognized by Packard Fellowship program as one of nation's most innovative young scientists Universal knowledge Published Feb 12, 2013 Johns Hopkins astrophysicists Menard, Bennett to join ambitious Euclid space telescope project
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/epigenetics/
 Epigenetics | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Epigenetics Biology How a worm's embryonic cells changed its development potential Published April 7, 2023 The findings, which upend classical thinking about animal cell differentiation, could shed light on mutations linked to human diseases Immunogenetics Large-scale bovine vaccine study reveals the role of genetics in immune response Published April 22, 2022 In largest personalized immunogenetics study to date, computer scientist Yana Safonova discovers the DNA sequences that control vaccine response in cows, opening the door for further immunogenetics research in humans Faculty news Synthetic biologist wins prestigious Packard Fellowship Published Oct 15, 2020 Reza Kalhor, an assistant professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering, edits the genetic code to enable cells to record their own growth—a key to unlocking the origins of developmental abnormalities Epigenetics Decoding brain changes that coincide with psychiatric disorders Published Jan 22, 2019 Scientists discover epigenetic variances in neurons in parts of the brain
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/genetics/
 Genetics | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Genetics Genetics Machine learning method can improve genetic risk assessments for non-white populations Published Oct 2, 2023 Researchers have developed a scalable AI-based approach that makes use of genetic studies that include people of different ethnic backgrounds and could one day help address health disparities Genetics Missing piece in human genome decoded Published Aug 23, 2023 Chromosome associated with male development fully sequenced by a team of more than 100 researchers around the world Biology How a worm's embryonic cells changed its development potential Published April 7, 2023 The findings, which upend classical thinking about animal cell differentiation, could shed light on mutations linked to human diseases In Memoriam Genetic medicine pioneer Barbara Migeon dies at 91 Published Feb 9, 2023 Migeon, the sixth woman to reach the rank of professor at the School of Medicine, remembered for dedication to education, influential research Protein power Study probes the
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/molecular-biology/
 Molecular biology | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Molecular biology Neuroscience Machine learning helps scientists see synapse changes Published June 7, 2023 Visualizing connections in the brain could yield insights into how our brains change with learning, aging, injury, and disease Biochemistry Cellular stress enzyme might play key role in neurodegenerative diseases such as ALS Published March 15, 2021 MARK2 enzyme controls cellular protein synthesis in response to types of stress or damage seen in neurodegenerative disorders, scientists target enzyme for new lines of research Andrew Holland receives President's Frontier Award Published Feb 15, 2021 Video The $250,000 Johns Hopkins award recognizes scholars who are on the cusp of becoming leaders in their fields Genetics CRISPR-Cas9 'scissor' tool may be a genetic 'dimmer switch' as well Published Jan 29, 2021 Molecular biologists and geneticists from Johns Hopkins identify the role of specialized RNA in repressing gene activity COVID-19 Researchers retrace COVID-19's introduction, impact in D.C. region
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/physics/articles/
 Physics | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Physics Materials science Liquid crystals could revolutionize robots of the future Published March 4, 2024 Robots, cameras could be made of liquid crystals, thanks to a new discovery that significantly expands the potential of the chemicals already common in computer displays Faculty Honors Two physics professors receive funding from Simons Foundation Published Sept 13, 2023 They are among 16 researchers recognized for innovative strides in mathematics, physics, astrophysics, and computer science Quantum physics Magnets in flux Published Aug 18, 2022 Researchers at the Institute for Quantum Matter prove that mechanically manipulating a certain type of metal can change its magnetic properties, ushering in new applications for the rare and underutilized field of piezomagnetism Q+A Engineer co-authors paper investigating experiences of LGBTQ+ physicists Published March 16, 2022 The climate study finds that LGBTQ+ respondents working in physics fields reported experiencing and witnessing 'alarming high rates' of harassment, homophobia, and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/09/17/bees-behavior-patterns/
DNA marks linked to reversible behavior patterns in bees | Hub

DNA marks linked to reversible behavior patterns in bees Results may shed light on complex behavioral issues in humans, such as memory, stress response, mood disorders Published Sept 17, 2012 A team led by a Johns Hopkins researcher has uncovered evidence suggesting that changes in behavioral patterns are linked to changes in chemical tags on genes, a discovery that has important implications for human health. Using tests conducted on bees, a team led by Andrew Feinberg, a professor of molecular medicine at Johns Hopkins and director of the Center for Epigenetics at Hopkins' Institute for Basic Biomedical Science, found that marks on DNA were directly related to specific behaviors and that when behaviors changed, so did the DNA marks. The team's findings were published online on Sept. 16 by Nature Neuroscience. From Johns Hopkins Medicine: The researchers say they hope their results may begin to shed light on complex behavioral
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/01/22/genes-cause-illness-feinberg/
 Study: how genes cause illness | Hub
Hub staff report
Study: how genes cause illness Johns Hopkins researchers find that genes and their regulatory 'tags' conspire to promote rheumatoid arthritis By Hub staff report / Published Jan 22, 2013 In a joint study, published January 20 in Nature Biotechnology and discussed in The New York Times, researchers from the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden found that genes and their regulatory "tags" conspire to promote rheumatoid arthritis, an immune disorder affecting roughly 1.5 million American adults. Andrew Feinberg, King Fahd Professor of Molecular Medicine at Johns Hopkins and a lead author of the study, reports that the research team found hundreds of chemical tags but only four that seemed truly related to the disease. More from The New York Times: It was much more complicated than just studying genes themselves. Researchers know a gene will remain stable, but the chemical tags that turn the genes
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/25/new-tool-pinpoints-genetic-sources-of-disease/
New tool could help researchers pinpoint the genetic sources of disease  | Hub
Hub staff report
New tool could help researchers pinpoint the genetic sources of disease Overlay of genetic, epigenetic maps could yield insight, study suggests By Hub staff report / Published March 25, 2014 Many diseases have their origins either in the genome or in reversible chemical changes to DNA known as the epigenome. Now, results of a new study from Johns Hopkins scientists show a connection between these two maps. The findings, reported last week on the website of the American Journal of Human Genetics, could help disease trackers find patterns in those overlays that could offer clues to the causes of—and possible treatments for—complex genetic conditions, including many cancers and metabolic disorders. "By showing the connections between genetic variants and epigenetic information, we're providing epidemiologists with a road map," says Andrew Feinberg, professor of medicine and the director of the Center for Epigenetics at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. "Epigenetic
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/15/brice-menard-packard-fellowship/
Johns Hopkins astrophysicist Brice Ménard receives Packard Fellowship | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Johns Hopkins astrophysicist Brice Ménard receives Packard Fellowship He studies universe using statistical analysis of large astronomical datasets By Phil Sneiderman / Published Oct 15, 2014 Johns Hopkins astrophysicist Brice Ménard has been recognized by the Packard Fellowship program as one of the nation's most innovative young scientists and engineers, joining 17 others as recipients of a 2014 David and Lucile Packard Foundation Fellowship for Science and Engineering. Image caption: Brice Ménard The fellowship includes an unrestricted grant of $875,000 allocated over a five-year period, which is designed to give talented young researchers an opportunity to explore new frontiers, take risks, and follow uncharted paths that may lead to important discoveries. Ménard, an assistant professor in the Henry Rowland Department of Physics and Astronomy in the Krieger School of Arts and Sciences, plans to use this fellowship to work on a new technique to estimate the distance of galaxies and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/03/30/bloomberg-professors-casadevall-chute-salzberg-szalay/
Johns Hopkins names four new Bloomberg Distinguished Professors  | Hub
Kelly Brooks
Johns Hopkins names four new Bloomberg Distinguished Professors Cross-disciplinary scholars Casadevall, Chute, Salzberg, Szalay will work to further university's signature initiatives Image caption: JHU's four newest Bloomberg Distinguished Professors are Alexander Szalay (top left), Arturo Casadevall (top right), Christopher Chute (bottom left), and Steven Salzberg. By Kelly Brooks / Published March 30, 2015 Four renowned, cross-disciplinary scholars—Arturo Casadevall, Christopher Chute, Steven Salzberg, and Alexander Szalay—are joining the ranks of Bloomberg Distinguished Professors at Johns Hopkins University. Each will be affiliated with two or more JHU schools and divisions, conduct multidisciplinary research that furthers the university's signature initiatives, and teach students across the university. With the addition of these four, Hopkins is now home to a total of 10 Bloomberg Distinguished Professors, a number that is expected to swell to 50 within the next four years. The endowed professorships are supported by a $350 million gift to the university by Johns
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/08/bloomberg-distinguished-professors-fanzo-ha-li-yuille/
Four new Bloomberg Distinguished Professors named at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Kelly Brooks
Four new Bloomberg Distinguished Professors named at Johns Hopkins Scholars join ranks of university's eminent cross-disciplinary faculty Image caption: JHU's four newest Bloomberg Distinguished Professors are (clockwise from top left) Taekjip Ha, Jessica Fanzo, Alan Yuille, and Rong Li. By Kelly Brooks / Published July 8, 2015 The solutions to the world's biggest challenges do not lie in any one discipline—they lie in the connections among big thinkers and bridge-builders. The four individuals appointed this week as Bloomberg Distinguished Professors represent this new generation of cross-specialty collaborators who pull insights from across the spectrum of human knowledge. The Bloomberg Distinguished Professorships are the centerpiece of the university's focus on strengthening its "capacity for faculty-led interdisciplinary collaboration" as outlined in President Ronald J. Daniels' Ten by Twenty vision plan. A total of 50 endowed professorships, to be appointed over five years, are supported by a gift to the university by Johns
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/14/feinberg-rizzardi-zero-gravity-genetics/
Genomics at zero gravity: JHU researchers conduct experiments on NASA aircraft | Hub
Hub staff report
Genomics at zero gravity: JHU researchers conduct experiments on NASA aircraft By Hub staff report / Published Oct 14, 2015 After a series of tests conducted in NASA's reduced-gravity aircraft—the so-called "vomit comet"—two Johns Hopkins researchers have gathered the first evidence that genetic sequencing can be done in space. Image caption: Johns Hopkins researcher Andy Feinberg uses a positive displacement pipette to transfer fluid in zero gravity. Image credit: NASA/Regan Geeseman Last month, JHU geneticists Andrew Feinberg and Lindsay Rizzardi spent four days conducting experiments to test two key tools in zero-gravity conditions, Nature reported Tuesday. One tool could assist with long-term storage of genetic material; the other is a small, transportable genetic sequencer sent for testing by a colleague at Weill Cornell Medicine in New York City. They worked aboard a NASA aircraft that flies in sweeping parabolas to simulate the weightlessness of space. The zero-gravity maneuver lasts for
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/21/paul-ferraro-bloomberg-distinguished-professor/
Paul Ferraro named Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Tim Parsons
Paul Ferraro named Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins Economist holds appointments in schools of Business, Engineering By Tim Parsons / Published Oct 21, 2015 Economist Paul Ferraro has been named a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor with appointments in the Carey Business School and the Whiting School of Engineering's Department of Geography and Environmental Engineering. Ferraro's research focuses on building a credible evidence base about the environmental and social impacts of public and private programs. Combining the approaches of epidemiologists, with their naturally occurring data, and clinical trial health scientists, with their randomized controlled trials, Ferraro seeks to identify the causal links between the actions we take to improve our world and the impacts of those actions. For example, he has tried to quantify both the impacts of environmental regulations on the poor and the impacts of anti-poverty programs on the environment. "Paul joins a group of extraordinary scholars who bring
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/10/chatterjee-named-bloomberg-distinguished-professor/
Nilanjan Chatterjee named Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Julie Messersmith
Nilanjan Chatterjee named Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins Scientist holds appointments in schools of Public Health and Medicine Credit: CHRIS HARTLOVE By Julie Messersmith / Published Nov 10, 2015 Nilanjan Chatterjee has joined Johns Hopkins as a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor in the Bloomberg School of Public Health's Department of Biostatistics and in the Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center in the School of Medicine's Department of Oncology. He joins Johns Hopkins from the National Institutes of Health, where he had served since 2001, most recently as the chief of the Biostatistics Branch of the National Cancer Institute's Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics. Chatterjee is the 16th Bloomberg Distinguished Professor appointed across Johns Hopkins. The professorships are supported by a $350 million gift to the university by Johns Hopkins alumnus, philanthropist and three-term New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. The majority of this gift is dedicated to creating 50
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/05/saudi-arabia-iran-conflict-nasr-npr/
Nasr: Saudi execution 'torpedoes America's approach' in Middle East | Hub
Hub staff report
Nasr: Saudi execution 'torpedoes America's approach' in Middle East SAIS dean, Middle East scholar speaks with NPR about widening diplomatic rift between Saudi Arabia, Iran By Hub staff report / Published Jan 5, 2016 Vali Nasr, a Middle East scholar and dean of Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, D.C., joined NPR's "Morning Edition" today to discuss the deteriorating relationship between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Image caption: Vali Nasr The confrontation, which has raised sectarian tensions across the Middle East and prompted calls for restraint from world leaders, erupted following Saudi Arabia's recent execution of prominent Shiite cleric. News of the execution of Nimr al-Nimr—a vocal critic of Saudi Arabia's ruling royal family whose death sentence was carried out despite warnings from Tehran that the action would have repercussions—prompted demonstrators to attack, then set fire to, the Saudi Embassy in Tehran. In response, Saudi Arabia severed
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/18/paris-attacks-isis-vali-nasr/
War on ISIS: Johns Hopkins expert explains how to defeat the Islamic State  | Hub
Hub staff report
War on ISIS: Johns Hopkins expert explains how to defeat the Islamic State SAIS dean, Middle East scholar Vali Nasr discusses the Paris attacks and the need for a diplomatic solution to Syrian conflict Image caption: A street memorial in Paris, France, where 129 people were killed in coordinated terrorist attacks on Nov. 13. Credit: Jean-François Gornet By Hub staff report / Published Nov 18, 2015 Friday's deadly attacks in Paris, which left at least 129 people dead and more than 350 injured, signaled a new chapter in the Islamic State's war against the West. With a series of coordinated attacks at a concert venue, at restaurants and bars, and outside a stadium, the group—also known as ISIS, ISIL, or Daesh—demonstrated its ability and willingness to strike targets beyond the Middle East. Image caption: Vali Nasr The attacks raised new fears about homegrown, ISIS-inspired terrorists across Europe and beyond and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/08/07/vali-nasr-syria-times/
Nasr: Syrian conflict threatens Middle East stability | Hub
By Vali Nasr
Nasr: Syrian conflict threatens Middle East stability By By Vali Nasr / Published Aug 7, 2012 Vali Nasr, who took over as dean of the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University in July and previously advised President Obama's special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, wrote an op-ed about the conflict in Syria that appeared in The New York Times on Sunday, July 28. Nasr writes: The conflict in Syria has reached a tipping point, but not one that promises a quick end to the fighting. With or without Bashar al-Assad as its leader, Syria now has all the makings of a grim and drawn-out civil war: evenly matched protagonists who are not ready for a cease-fire, and outside powers preoccupied with their own agendas and unable to find common ground. There is no easy way out of such a stalemated struggle, and this one threatens the stability
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/13/nasr-iraq-islamist-state/
Nasr: Sectarian violence in Iraq can be traced to 'arbitrary boundaries' drawn after WWI | Hub
Hub staff report
Nasr: Sectarian violence in Iraq can be traced to 'arbitrary boundaries' drawn after WWI By Hub staff report / Published Aug 13, 2014 The ongoing sectarian strife in Iraq that recently prompted U.S. military intervention can be traced to "arbitrary boundaries" drawn nearly 100 years ago by European diplomats, writes Vali Nasr, dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, D.C., in an op-ed published in The New York Times over the weekend. In his article, "Crisis a Century in the Making," Nasr contends that the maps of the Arab world formalized after World War I "left these new Arab states open to perpetual internal clashes based on rivalries among tribes and religious sects," like the current upheaval in Iraq. America's tentative return to the battlefields of Iraq, however reminiscent it is of unfinished American business there, is also a deadly reminder that the Arab world
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/16/hopkins-students-abroad-paris/
Johns Hopkins confirms safety of students in Paris following attacks | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins confirms safety of students in Paris following attacks About 20 from JHU presently studying abroad in French capital By Hub staff report / Published Nov 16, 2015 About 20 Johns Hopkins University students studying in Paris have been confirmed to be safe in the wake of a series of deadly, coordinated terrorist attacks in the French capital late Friday, university officials said. Image caption: A makeshift memorial outside the Bataclan theater in Paris, where a terrorist attack left at least 89 people dead on Friday. Image credit: Annie HARADA VIOT That number includes 14 undergraduates in authorized study abroad programs in Paris and graduate students affiliated with JHU's School of Advanced International Studies and Krieger School of Arts and Sciences. Lori Citti, director of the Office of Study Abroad, said that students were advised to stay at or close to home over the weekend. "It's a very fluid
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/13/best-online-education-programs-us-news/
'U.S. News' ranks 3 Johns Hopkins online graduate programs among nation's best | Hub
Hub staff report
'U.S. News' ranks 3 Johns Hopkins online graduate programs among nation's best By Hub staff report / Published Jan 13, 2016 Three online graduate programs at Johns Hopkins University have been recognized by U.S. News & World Report as being among the best in the nation. In its annual lists of top online programs, U.S. News ranked JHU's offerings No. 5 in information technology, No. 6 in nursing, and No. 11 in engineering. The publication ranks the nation's best online graduate programs in seven disciplines in addition to the best online bachelor's programs. "We are very pleased with this year's U.S. News & World Report rankings," said Dexter G. Smith, an associate dean who oversees Johns Hopkins Engineering for Professionals, a part-time, graduate-level arm of JHU's Whiting School of Engineering. "Our online team works hard to develop interactive courses that, without a doubt, provide students with a top-notch Johns Hopkins
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/13/geography-of-poverty-donovan-edin/
White House official discusses shift in approach to tackling poverty | Hub
Katie Pearce
White House official discusses shift in approach to tackling poverty Shaun Donovan, director of the Office of Management and Budget, visits Johns Hopkins for conversation with sociologist Kathryn Edin By Katie Pearce / Published Jan 13, 2016 Sociologists tracking patterns of American poverty have emphasized for years that "place matters." Now, the White House is increasingly embracing this idea in its efforts to shape policy and address economic disparities. Shaun Donovan, director of the White House Office of Budget and Management and former U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, visited Johns Hopkins University on Tuesday to discuss the Obama administration's approach to poverty. He spoke with JHU professor Kathryn Edin, a sociologist whose research work focuses on poverty and co-author of the recently published book $2.00 a Day: Living on Almost Nothing in America, which examines the role of welfare reform in the rise of American poverty. The event,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/20/new-horizons-marks-ten-years-since-launch/
The voyage of a lifetime: Marking a decade since 'New Horizons' launch | Hub
Hub staff report
The voyage of a lifetime: Marking a decade since 'New Horizons' launch NASA spacecraft completed historic Pluto flyby in July 2015 Image caption: This processed image is the highest-resolution color look yet at the haze layers in Pluto’s atmosphere. Shown in approximate true color, the picture is constructed from a mosaic of four panchromatic images from the Long Range Reconnaissance Imager splashed with Ralph/Multispectral Visible Imaging Camera four-color filter data, all acquired by NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft on July 14, 2015. The resolution is 0.6 miles per pixel; the sun illuminates the scene from the right. Credit: NASA By Hub staff report / Published Jan 20, 2016 Ten years ago Tuesday, one of the great robotic explorers of our age, NASA's New Horizons spacecraft, rocketed into the sky above the Florida coastline. The tiny probe—weighing barely 1,000 pounds—sped from Earth faster than any spacecraft before it, embarking on a 9.5-year
http://hub.jhu.edu/magazine/2015/fall/new-horizons-pluto
 New Horizons' moment of truth | Hub
Dale Keiger
New Horizons' moment of truth Credit: NASA/JHUAPL/Southwest Research Institute By Dale Keiger / Published Fall 2015 A crowd of several hundred people were having a very good time, cheering and clapping and gaily waving little American flags. They had gathered at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory in Laurel, Maryland, early on the morning of July 14 to witness an exceptional scientific accomplishment. After an epic voyage of nearly 10 years and more than 3 billion miles, New Horizons, a robotic spacecraft the size of a Steinway concert piano, had reached its destination—Pluto and its system of (at least) five moons. The exuberant audience counted down the last 10 seconds to 7:50 Eastern Daylight Time, the instant when New Horizons was supposed to fly closest to Pluto's surface. Wound-up space bloggers and science journalists and video personalities from around the world broadcast the same bulletin: New Horizons had done it.
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/applied-physics-laboratory/
 Applied physics laboratory | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Applied physics laboratory Space science Undergrads help NASA uncover the mysteries of Venus Published April 8, 2024 Students are learning the ins and outs of the Venusian atmosphere and building a sensor for NASA's DAVINCI mission, thanks to the vision of APL planetary scientist Noam Izenberg and a small team of faculty experts Space exploration A bigger, bolder moon shot Published Spring 2024 NASA's ambitious moon return involves plans to build a long-term human presence in the solar system / Johns Hopkins Magazine Awards+Honors DART mission lead named to TIME100 Published April 13, 2023 Ed Reynolds, a program manager at APL, led a team of hundreds in successful demonstration of asteroid redirection technology Space exploration JWST detects distant exoplanet Published Jan 11, 2023 Using NASA's James Webb Space Telescope, a team led by researchers at Johns Hopkins APL confirmed the discovery of an exoplanet orbiting a red dwarf
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/nasa/
 Nasa | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Nasa Space exploration A bigger, bolder moon shot Published Spring 2024 NASA's ambitious moon return involves plans to build a long-term human presence in the solar system / Johns Hopkins Magazine Sending heart tissue to space Published Summer 2023 Johns Hopkins scientists study aging and heart disease by sending heart "tissue-on-a-chip" to space / Johns Hopkins Magazine Space safety Hopkins, Carnegie Mellon to co-lead new NASA institute Published March 16, 2023 The JHU-CMU team is spearheading a Space Technology Research Institute to prevent failure in additively manufactured spaceflight materials Biomedical engineering Heart tissue heads to space Published March 15, 2023 The experiments on the International Space Station aim to inform researchers' understanding and treatment of age-related cardiac problems Bracing for impact DART spacecraft prepares for asteroid collision Published Sept 14, 2022 The proof-of-concept mission managed by APL aims to demonstrate how a spacecraft can be used to deflect
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/new-horizons/
 New horizons | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles New horizons 10 cool things we've learned about Pluto Published July 21, 2020 Five years after the historic New Horizons flyby of Pluto, scientists have learned that the planet is far from an inert ball of ice and is one of the most geologically active and exciting places in the solar system New Horizons Image reveals fresh Ultima Thule details Published Jan 25, 2019 Light and dark patterns seen on both lobes of distant Kuiper Belt object in recent New Horizons transmission Deep space Ultima Thule, now in 3D Published Jan 4, 2019 Before passing behind the sun, 'New Horizons' spacecraft relays scientific data daily 'New Horizons' Mission reveals entirely new kind of world Published Jan 2, 2019 New, detailed images of Ultima Thule shed light on the processes that built the planets billions of years ago Pixel perfect 'New Horizons' successfully explores distant Ultima Thule Published Jan
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/pluto/
 Pluto | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Pluto 10 cool things we've learned about Pluto Published July 21, 2020 Five years after the historic New Horizons flyby of Pluto, scientists have learned that the planet is far from an inert ball of ice and is one of the most geologically active and exciting places in the solar system Space oddities Published Winter 2016 Data from New Horizons reveals Pluto and Charon are anything but dead balls of rock / Johns Hopkins Magazine Nothing but blue skies Blue haze, red ice on Pluto Published Oct 9, 2015 Color photographs from 'New Horizons' yield clues to composition of planet's atmosphere Surface shots Pluto: It's complicated Published Sept 11, 2015 Photos Latest images from New Horizons spacecraft reveal distant planet's varied, complex surface Moment of truth New Horizons' epic voyage to Pluto Published Fall 2015 Getting New Horizons to Pluto was a triumph. Now, after nearly 10 years
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/space-exploration/
 Space exploration | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Space exploration Space exploration A bigger, bolder moon shot Published Spring 2024 NASA's ambitious moon return involves plans to build a long-term human presence in the solar system / Johns Hopkins Magazine Space exploration JWST zooms in on 19 nearby spiral galaxies Published Jan 29, 2024 Hopkins research scientist David Thilker explains how studying this treasure trove of images can help shed light on the star formation process Space exploration News flash: Study decodes secrets of impacts in space Published July 18, 2023 By creating small impact flashes down on Earth, JHU researchers can better understand collisions in outer space Space exploration Supernovae are important source of dust for young galaxies Published July 12, 2023 James Webb Space Telescope detects large amounts of dust in the aftermath of the explosive deaths of distant stars Space exploration Euclid space telescope data will shed light on evolution of dark universe
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/17/new-horizons-data-transmission/
How exactly does New Horizons send all that data back from Pluto? | Hub
Greg Rienzi
How exactly does New Horizons send all that data back from Pluto? Transmission of information across 3 billion miles will take 16 months By Greg Rienzi / Published July 17, 2015 NASA's New Horizons spacecraft has zipped by Pluto and continues on its voyage beyond our solar system and deeper into the Kuiper Belt. By now, we've all seen the stunning high-resolution images of the dwarf planet's icy surface captured by the craft's Long Range Reconnaissance Imager, or LORRI. LORRI, however, is just one of seven instruments that make up New Horizons' science payload, which collected a treasure trove of data during the flyby that brought the craft within 7,800 miles of Pluto. In some sense, the surface images are just an appetizer for a full course of scientific data headed our way. New Horizons' instruments will tell us more about the composition and structure of Pluto's dynamic atmosphere, the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/15/new-horizons-phones-home/
Still going: New Horizons phones home following historic Pluto flyby | Hub
Hub staff report
Still going: New Horizons phones home following historic Pluto flyby Spacecraft will continue on its adventure deeper into Kuiper Belt Image caption: New Horizons flight controllers at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory celebrate after they received confirmation from the spacecraft that it had successfully completed the flyby of Pluto on July 14, 2015. Credit: NASA / Bill Ingalls By Hub staff report / Published July 15, 2015 The call everyone was waiting for is in. NASA's New Horizons spacecraft phoned home just before 9 p.m. EDT Tuesday to tell the mission team and the world it had accomplished its historic flyby of Pluto. "I know today we've inspired a whole new generation of explorers with this great success, and we look forward to the discoveries yet to come," NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said. "This is a historic win for science and for exploration. We've truly once again raised
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/15/pluto-close-up-mountains/
Latest Pluto photos from New Horizons give close-up view of icy mountains | Hub
Hub staff report
Latest Pluto photos from New Horizons give close-up view of icy mountains Images suggest planet may still be geologically active, scientists say Image caption: New close-up images taken by NASA's New Horizons spacecraft of a region near Pluto’s equator reveal a range of youthful mountains rising as high as 11,000 feet (3,500 meters) above the planet's surface. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 15, 2015 New close-up images of a region near Pluto's equator reveal a giant surprise: a range of youthful mountains rising as high as 11,000 feet (3,500 meters) above the surface of the icy body (Mount Everest, by comparison, measures about 29,000 feet). The mountains likely formed no more than 100 million years ago—mere youngsters relative to the 4.56-billion-year age of the solar system—and may still be in the process of building, says Jeff Moore of the New
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/23/pluto-mountains-new-horizons/
New Horizons discovers second, smaller mountain range in Pluto's 'heart' | Hub
Hub staff report
New Horizons discovers second, smaller mountain range in Pluto's 'heart' Scientists estimate frozen peaks are one-half mile to one mile high, about the same height as the U.S. Appalachian Mountains Image caption: A newly discovered mountain range lies near the southwestern margin of Pluto’s heart-shaped Tombaugh Region, situated between bright, icy plains and dark, heavily-cratered terrain. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 23, 2015 Pluto's icy mountains have company. NASA's New Horizons mission has discovered a new, apparently less lofty mountain range on the lower-left edge of Pluto's best known feature, the bright, heart-shaped region named Tombaugh Region. These newly discovered frozen peaks are estimated to be one-half mile to one mile high, about the same height as the Appalachian Mountains in the United States. The Norgay Mountains discovered by New Horizons on July 15 more closely approximate the height of
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/15/pluto-close-up-mountains
Latest Pluto photos from New Horizons give close-up view of icy mountains | Hub
Hub staff report
Latest Pluto photos from New Horizons give close-up view of icy mountains Images suggest planet may still be geologically active, scientists say Image caption: New close-up images taken by NASA's New Horizons spacecraft of a region near Pluto’s equator reveal a range of youthful mountains rising as high as 11,000 feet (3,500 meters) above the planet's surface. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 15, 2015 New close-up images of a region near Pluto's equator reveal a giant surprise: a range of youthful mountains rising as high as 11,000 feet (3,500 meters) above the surface of the icy body (Mount Everest, by comparison, measures about 29,000 feet). The mountains likely formed no more than 100 million years ago—mere youngsters relative to the 4.56-billion-year age of the solar system—and may still be in the process of building, says Jeff Moore of the New
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/17/pluto-heart-of-heart
 NASA's New Horizons finds vast, frozen plain in the heart of Pluto's 'heart' | Hub
Hub staff report
NASA's New Horizons finds vast, frozen plain in the heart of Pluto's 'heart' Scientists will learn more about these mysterious terrains as higher-resolution images arrive Image caption: In the center left of Pluto’s vast heart-shaped feature lies a vast, craterless plain that appears to be no more than 100 million years old and is possibly still being shaped by geologic processes. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 17, 2015 In the latest data from NASA's New Horizons spacecraft, a new close-up image of Pluto reveals a vast, craterless plain that appears to be no more than 100 million years old, and is possibly still being shaped by geologic processes. This frozen region is north of Pluto's icy mountains, in the center-left of the heart feature, informally named "Tombaugh Regio" (Tombaugh Region) after Clyde Tombaugh, who discovered Pluto in 1930. "This terrain
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/15/daniels-new-horizons-pluto/
Daniels praises New Horizons team for 'unimaginable' achievement of reaching Pluto | Hub
Hub staff report
Daniels praises New Horizons team for 'unimaginable' achievement of reaching Pluto Mission embodies 'restless curiosity, intellectual courage, and undaunted determination' that have defined Johns Hopkins for more than 139 years, JHU president writes Image caption: Pluto nearly fills the frame in this image from the Long Range Reconnaissance Imager (LORRI) aboard NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft, taken on July 13, 2015, when the spacecraft was 476,000 miles from the surface. This is the last and most detailed image sent to Earth before the spacecraft’s closest approach to Pluto on July 14. The color image has been combined with lower-resolution color information from the Ralph instrument that was acquired earlier on July 13. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 15, 2015 A day after New Horizons completed its Pluto flyby on Tuesday, Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels sent the following message
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/11/new-photos-pluto-new-horizons/
Latest Pluto images from New Horizons reveal planet's varied, complex surface | Hub
Hub staff report
Latest Pluto images from New Horizons reveal planet's varied, complex surface By Hub staff report / Published Sept 11, 2015 New close-up images of Pluto from NASA's New Horizons spacecraft reveal a bewildering variety of surface features that have scientists reeling because of their range and complexity. "Pluto is showing us a diversity of landforms and complexity of processes that rival anything we've seen in the solar system," said New Horizons Principal Investigator Alan Stern, of the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colorado. "If an artist had painted this Pluto before our flyby, I probably would have called it over the top—but that's what is actually there." New Horizons began its yearlong download of new images and other data over the Labor Day weekend. Images downlinked in the past few days have more than doubled the amount of Pluto's surface seen at resolutions as good as 400 meters—or 440 yards—per
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/27/pluto-atmosphere-haze-new-horizons/
Stunning parting shot of Pluto reveals layers of atmospheric haze | Hub
Hub staff report
Stunning parting shot of Pluto reveals layers of atmospheric haze New data from New Horizons also shows evidence of exotic flowing ice Image caption: Speeding away from Pluto just seven hours after its July 14 closest approach, the New Horizons spacecraft looked back and captured this spectacular image of Pluto’s atmosphere, backlit by the sun. The image reveals layers of haze that are several times higher than scientists predicted. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published July 27, 2015 Flowing ice and a surprising extended haze are among the newest discoveries from NASA's New Horizons mission, which reveal distant Pluto to be an icy world of wonders. "We knew that a mission to Pluto would bring some surprises, and now—10 days after closest approach—we can say that our expectation has been more than surpassed," said John Grunsfeld, NASA's associate administrator for the Science
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/09/blue-atmosphere-around-pluto/
Latest Pluto images from New Horizons show blue skies, red ice | Hub
Hub staff report
Latest Pluto images from New Horizons show blue skies, red ice Image caption: Pluto's haze layer shows its blue color in this picture taken by the New Horizons Ralph/Multispectral Visible Imaging Camera (MVIC). The high-altitude haze is thought to be similar in nature to that seen at Saturn’s moon Titan. The source of both hazes likely involves sunlight-initiated chemical reactions of nitrogen and methane, leading to relatively small, soot-like particles (called tholins) that grow as they settle toward the surface. This image was generated by software that combines information from blue, red and near-infrared images to replicate the color a human eye would perceive as closely as possible. Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / Southwest Research Institute By Hub staff report / Published Oct 9, 2015 The first color images of Pluto's atmospheric hazes, returned by NASA's New Horizons spacecraft last week, reveal that the hazes are blue. "Who would have
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/21/does-planet-nine-really-exist/
Does Planet Nine really exist, or is it deep space fantasy? | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Does Planet Nine really exist, or is it deep space fantasy? Johns Hopkins planetary scientist Hal Weaver discusses new evidence suggesting a giant planet lurks beyond Pluto Image caption: An artistic rendering shows the distant view from the hypothetical Planet Nine back towards the sun. Credit: Caltech/R. Hurt (IPAC) By Saralyn Lyons / Published Jan 21, 2016 New evidence suggesting the existence of a massive ninth planet at the outer reaches of our solar system made headlines Wednesday and captured the imagination of astronomers and space enthusiasts alike. Image caption: Hal Weaver The theory was put forth by California Institute of Technology astronomer Mike Brown—the scientist responsible for popularizing a revised classification of planets that excluded Pluto (which earned him the nickname "Pluto Killer")—and his colleague, Konstantin Batygin. The researchers describe their work in an article published in The Astronomical Journal. For some perspective on the new evidence, the Hub
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/25/snowzilla-photos-hopkins/
After the storm: Baltimore, Johns Hopkins dig out following record snowfall | Hub
Hub staff report
After the storm: Baltimore, Johns Hopkins dig out following record snowfall By Hub staff report / Published Jan 25, 2016 Johns Hopkins University was closed Monday and Tuesday as the region continued to dig out from a winter storm that dropped record-breaking snowfall in Baltimore and beyond over the weekend. Some 30 inches of snow had accumulated across much of the region by Sunday morning, burying cars and campus walkways alike and rendering most roads unpassable. The 29.2 inches measured at BWI airport were the most from a single storm there since record keeping began in 1883. The long process of digging out commenced Sunday and was expected to last for days. But that didn't stop many Johns Hopkins students from venturing out to explore the winter wonderland. Nor did it deter the many essential staff members who worked through the storm—in dinning halls and libraries, on the grounds and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/26/staff-appreciation-snow/
JHU students show appreciation for staff who worked through record snowstorm | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU students show appreciation for staff who worked through record snowstorm About 250 students take part in SGA-organized '30 Minutes of Thanks' By Hub staff report / Published Jan 26, 2016 Johns Hopkins University students took time Monday to show their appreciation to the staff members whose work through a historic winter storm this past weekend ensured students were safe, warm, fed, and otherwise taken care of. The storm dropped about 30 inches of snow across the region from Friday night through Saturday evening. The 29.2 inches measured at BWI airport were the most from in a three-day span since record-keeping began in 1883. At JHU's Homewood campus, staff members worked around the clock to make sure walkways remained clear, dining facilities remained operational, and students remained safe. Monday afternoon's event, dubbed "30 Minutes of Thanks," was an opportunity for students to thank those staff members, many of whom had
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/03/angela-davis-race-forum-hopkins/
Activist, scholar Angela Davis calls for new thinking on criminal justice, prisons | Hub
Katie Pearce
Race in America Activist, scholar Angela Davis calls for new thinking on criminal justice, prisons Capacity crowd attends talk at Johns Hopkins University's Shriver Hall Image caption: Activist, scholar, and author Angela Davis spoke to a capacity crowd at JHU's Shriver Hall on Tuesday as part of the 'JHU Forums on Race in America.' Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Feb 3, 2016 In a packed assembly at Johns Hopkins University last night, activist and political scholar Angela Davis called for a wholesale dismantling of America's flawed policing and prison systems, framing that cause as central to the modern abolitionist movement. Image caption: Angela Davis speaks with students from JHU's Black Student Union following her talk. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University "We cannot simply call for reform," said Davis, who visited Hopkins as part of the JHU Forums on Race in
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/12/angela-davis-race-forums
 Political, social activist Angela Davis to speak at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Katie Pearce
Political, social activist Angela Davis to speak at Johns Hopkins Fourth event in JHU Forums on Race in America set for Feb. 2 Image caption: Angela Davis Credit: Courtesy UC Santa Cruz By Katie Pearce / Published Jan 12, 2016 Angela Davis, a leading thinker on issues of racial politics and criminal justice reform for nearly five decades, will visit Johns Hopkins University next month as part of the JHU Forums on Race in America. Davis, who first rose to prominence as a 1970s counterculture icon, has long been a vocal advocate for civil rights with writings and speeches that explore topics such as black liberation, feminism, gay and lesbian rights, and the U.S. prison system. She will speak at 7 p.m., Feb. 2, in Shriver Hall on JHU's Homewood Campus. "You can't really understand the latter half of the 20th century without knowing who Angela Davis is," says Lester
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/jhu-forums-race-america/articles/
 Jhu forums on race in america | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Jhu forums on race in america Film A mother's love and the American dream Published Sept 11, 2019 Former CTY Scholar Dario Guerrero will screen his award-winning documentary 'Rocio' on Sept. 25 as part of JHU Forums on Race in America Race in America Bridging the political divide Published April 5, 2019 Political commentator, JHU alum Michael Steele joins diplomat Vilma Martinez for JHU Forums on Race in America event Race in America Marc Morial on race and health equity Published March 15, 2019 President of the National Urban League visits Hopkins as part of the JHU Forums on Race in America series Race in America Challenges and change Published Sept 19, 2018 Women of color in leadership positions engage in wide-ranging panel discussion as part of 'JHU Forums on Race in America' series RACE FORUMS Women of color and public policy Published Sept 17, 2018 'Women of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/12/angela-davis-race-forums/
Political, social activist Angela Davis to speak at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Katie Pearce
Political, social activist Angela Davis to speak at Johns Hopkins Fourth event in JHU Forums on Race in America set for Feb. 2 Image caption: Angela Davis Credit: Courtesy UC Santa Cruz By Katie Pearce / Published Jan 12, 2016 Angela Davis, a leading thinker on issues of racial politics and criminal justice reform for nearly five decades, will visit Johns Hopkins University next month as part of the JHU Forums on Race in America. Davis, who first rose to prominence as a 1970s counterculture icon, has long been a vocal advocate for civil rights with writings and speeches that explore topics such as black liberation, feminism, gay and lesbian rights, and the U.S. prison system. She will speak at 7 p.m., Feb. 2, in Shriver Hall on JHU's Homewood Campus. "You can't really understand the latter half of the 20th century without knowing who Angela Davis is," says Lester
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/04/refugee-communities-baltimore-intersession/
JHU students get immersive introduction to issues facing refugee communities | Hub
Rachel Chism
JHU students get immersive introduction to issues facing refugee communities Weeklong course focuses on immigrants in Baltimore and beyond Image caption: Irene Vargas tutors a 16-year-old refugee as part of Refugee Youth Project's after-school program Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Rachel Chism / Published Feb 4, 2016 Irene Vargas emigrated from Peru when she was 10 years old, arriving in America with no English and no friends. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University The Johns Hopkins University senior now calls Baltimore home, and is discovering that she shares the community with a surprisingly large immigrant and refugee population. A 2014 report estimated that 7.3% of the city's population was born outside the U.S. Of the 6,700 refugees who resettled in Maryland in 2010–2014, 43 percent live in Baltimore City, according to a Maryland Office for Refugees and Asylees report. Spurred by her experiences as an
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/04/thomas-dolby-light-city-baltimore/
Thomas Dolby among headliners for first Light City Baltimore festival | Hub
Hub staff report
Thomas Dolby among headliners for first Light City Baltimore festival Pop musician, digital music pioneer joined JHU faculty in 2014 Image caption: Thomas Dolby performs at a Johns Hopkins University event in October 2014. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Feb 4, 2016 Thomas Dolby, a 1980s pop music icon and a professor of the arts at Johns Hopkins University, will be among the headline performers at next month's inaugural Light City Baltimore festival, event organizers announced earlier this week. For more than three decades, Dolby—perhaps best known for his 1982 synthpop hit "She Blinded Me With Science"—has been a pioneer in the digital music industry, working alongside artists including David Bowie, Stevie Wonder, Foreigner, Joni Mitchell, and George Clinton. He joined the faculty at Johns Hopkins in 2014 as Homewood Professor of the Arts and serves as the artistic director for the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/12/college-admissions-reform-gratitude/
A suggestion for truly leveling the playing field in college admissions | Hub
Hub staff report
Commentary A suggestion for truly leveling the playing field in college admissions CTY's Elaine Tuttle Hansen suggests schools adopt lottery system By Hub staff report / Published Feb 12, 2016 In a commentary for Inside Higher Ed, Elaine Tuttle Hansen, executive director for the Johns Hopkins Center for Talented Youth, criticizes the suggestion that schools should assess student essays based on gratitude and "authentically chosen" extracurricular activities. Image caption: Elaine Tuttle Hansen On the surface, these education reform proposals appear to level the playing field for students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds, Hansen concedes. "Under the proposed system, for example, holding a job in order to support one's family will be a highly prized precollege activity," she writes. However, Hansen argues that the implementation of these policies could generate bias, resulting in greater disparities in access to higher education. "Can admissions readers equitably compare levels of gratitude and responsibility based on
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/12/financial-aid-program-micua/
JHU joins 12 other Maryland private schools in expanding financial aid for low-income students | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU joins 12 other Maryland private schools in expanding financial aid for low-income students Qualifying in-state students can receive up to $35,000 annually with Guaranteed Access Partnership Program grants By Hub staff report / Published Feb 12, 2016 Maryland's private colleges and universities, including Johns Hopkins, announced a new financial aid program Thursday designed to make higher education more affordable for low-income Maryland students. Under the program, 13 member schools of the Maryland Independent College and University Association, or MICUA, will match the state's existing Guaranteed Access grants, which are awarded to low-income high school seniors in Maryland. To be eligible, students must complete a college prep program, have at least a 2.5 GPA, and meet the program's income requirements. With the matching funds, the grant can now reach $35,000 annually and can be renewed for three years. "Every MICUA institution is committed to providing college access to low-income students,"
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/15/hopkins-swimming-george-kennedy-retires/
Johns Hopkins swim coach George Kennedy to retire after 31 seasons | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins swim coach George Kennedy to retire after 31 seasons Seven-time NCAA Division III coach of the year has coached 29 national champions, more than 1,400 All-Americans at JHU Image caption: George Kennedy has led his teams to 19 top-five finishes at the NCAA championship meet in his 31 seasons at Johns Hopkins. Credit: James VanRensselaer / Homewood Photography By Hub staff report / Published Feb 15, 2016 George Kennedy, head coach of the Johns Hopkins men's and women's swimming teams since 1985, announced today that he will retire at the end of the season. Kennedy, 60, will step down in June after 31 years at the helm of the highly successful programs. Kennedy—the program's third coach in the past 48 years—won 24 conference titles with the Blue Jays and was named NCAA Division III coach of the year seven times. He has coached 29 national champions and more
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/26/george-kennedy-named-great-leader-by-fortune
'Fortune' lists JHU swim coach Kennedy among 'The World's 50 Greatest Leaders' | Hub
Hub Staff Report
'Fortune' lists JHU swim coach Kennedy among 'The World's 50 Greatest Leaders' He has won DIII national coach of year honors seven times in 29 seasons Image caption: George Kennedy Credit: Christopher Myers By Hub Staff Report / Published March 26, 2014 What does Johns Hopkins swimming coach George Kennedy have in common with Pope Francis, Bono, and the Dalai Lama? They all made Fortune magazine's list of "The World's 50 Greatest Leaders," which was published last week. Kennedy, 58, just completed his 29th season as coach of the Blue Jays' men's and women's swimming teams. He was named Division III coach of the year for the seventh time this past weekend in Indianapolis, Ind., where JHU's women's team finished a program-best third at the NCAA championships. In 29 years, his teams have finished in the top 10 nationally 41 times, and in the top five 16 times. But, he
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/swimming/articles/
 Swimming | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Swimming ATHLETICS 2 receive postgrad scholarships Published June 23, 2017 Runner Lindsay Cheu, swimmer Andy Greenhalgh among 58 to earn prestigious award Swimming First at last Published March 17, 2017 Hopkins senior Evan Holder swims to NCAA title in 200 freestyle, breaks 29-year-old DIII record in the process Rio Olympics Former Blue Jays swim with the big fish Published July 28, 2016 Ana Bogdanovski and Pilar Shimizu will represent their countries at the 2016 Summer Games in Brazil Swimming Repeat champion Published March 17, 2016 Junior Andrew Greenhalgh wins DIII national title in 500 freestyle for second consecutive year Swimming Final lap for longtime coach Published Feb 15, 2016 Seven-time NCAA DIII coach of the year George Kennedy says his 31st season as coach of JHU's swim team will be his last Swimming Bogdanovski among NCAA Woman of the Year nominees Published Sept 4, 2015 Swimmer, who graduated
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/02/epa-grant-yale-hopkins-search-center/
Exploring how energy policies, climate change affect air quality—and our health | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Exploring how energy policies, climate change affect air quality—and our health Yale, Johns Hopkins to lead new interdisciplinary center that will study power generation trends, public health By Phil Sneiderman / Published March 2, 2016 A new interdisciplinary science team, led by experts from Yale and Johns Hopkins universities and funded by the Environmental Protection Agency, will study how power generation trends, climate change, and public policy interact to affect air quality. A key goal of this project is to trace how the resulting changes in air pollution may affect the health of people who live and work in the mid-Atlantic area. Image caption: Benjamin Hobbs To help unravel this environmental puzzle, the EPA has awarded a five-year, $10 million grant to establish a new Solutions for Energy, Air, Climate and Health Center, based at Yale and co-led by Johns Hopkins. The SEARCH Center includes prominent researchers from Johns Hopkins
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/09/high-table-2016/
Johns Hopkins students join professors, deans for annual High Table dinner  | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins students join professors, deans for annual High Table dinner By Hub staff report / Published March 9, 2016 Johns Hopkins University's first-year undergraduate students gathered for a formal affair Tuesday evening at the ceremonial High Table dinner, an annual tradition created in the spirit of the centuries-old dining styles of Oxford and Cambridge. In a transformed Rec Center, complete with banquet-style tables, black drapery, and gold plated flatware, students hobnobbed with their professors, deans, and university administrators over a three-course meal. "We talked about everything from Baltimore's hidden gems to the craziness of this year's presidential election," said AJ Tsang, a member of the Freshman Class Council. The menu selections featured a locally sourced Panzanella salad tossed in Dijon citrus vinaigrette and garnished with garlic and sage croutons and julienne basil; champagne apricot grilled chicken breast paired with parmesan buttered potato wedges, poached green beans, and honey glazed
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/15/baltimore-crime-study-ferguson-effect/
Quantifying the 'Ferguson effect:' How Missouri protests affected crime, policing in Baltimore | Hub
Jill Rosen
Quantifying the 'Ferguson effect:' How Missouri protests affected crime, policing in Baltimore Arrests declined but crime did not increase in months before Baltimore unrest, researchers find Image caption: Police form a line to push back protesters and media in Baltimore on April 28, 2015. Credit: Victoria Macchi/VOA News By Jill Rosen / Published March 15, 2016 A "Ferguson effect" likely slowed arrests in Baltimore well before the April 2015 unrest related to the arrest and death of Freddie Gray, but there is little evidence to suggest it had any effect on the city's crime rate, a new report concludes. Image caption: Stephen L. Morgan Sociologist Stephen L. Morgan, a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins University, analyzed crime incident and arrest data to determine if national controversy following the 2014 shooting of an unarmed black teenager by a white police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, had caused Baltimore police to shy
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/16/us-news-graduate-program-rankings/
Hopkins graduate programs ranked among nation's best by 'U.S. News' | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
Hopkins graduate programs ranked among nation's best by 'U.S. News' Nursing, education, medicine, engineering programs claim top spots By Arthur Hirsch / Published March 16, 2016 Johns Hopkins University graduate programs in nursing, education, medicine, and biomedical engineering remain among the best in the nation, according to the newest U.S. News & World Report rankings of "Best Graduate Schools." The list, released on Wednesday, moves the university's School of Nursing master's degree program up from a tie for second place last year to the No. 1 spot this year. The biomedical engineering program—run jointly by the School of Medicine and the Whiting School of Engineering—holds its long-standing No. 1 spot. The School of Medicine remains in a third place tie for research-focused medical schools and alone in first place for the geriatrics program. JHU's School of Education tied for second this year with Harvard University, behind Stanford, after finishing in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/17/ncaa-d3-swimming-diving-greenhalgh/
JHU's Andrew Greenhalgh repeats as DIII national champion in 500 freestyle | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU's Andrew Greenhalgh repeats as DIII national champion in 500 freestyle Blue Jays sit in fourth overall after first day of competition By Hub staff report / Published March 17, 2016 Johns Hopkins junior Andrew Greenhalgh won his second straight national championship in the 500-yard freestyle on Wednesday night, and the Blue Jays men's swimming team accumulated 79 points to rank fourth in the team standings after the first day of the NCAA Division III Men's Swimming and Diving Championships in Greensboro, N.C. Greenhalgh sat just behind eventual runner-up Arthur Conover of Kenyon for the first 400 yards before edging ahead for the first time between the 400 and 450-yard marks. He finished in 4:21.83, the second-fastest time in school history and .86 seconds ahead of Conover. In winning the 2015 title, Greenhalgh set an NCAA record with a time of 4:20.60. JHU sophomore Griffith Otazu took eighth placed in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/18/johns-hopkins-class-of-2020-admissions/
More than 3,000 admitted to Johns Hopkins University's Class of 2020 | Hub
Jill Rosen
More than 3,000 admitted to Johns Hopkins University's Class of 2020 By Jill Rosen / Published March 18, 2016 Nationally and internationally recognized inventors and researchers, founders of businesses and socially conscious organizations, globally ranked athletes, and published authors and journalists are among the 2,539 students Johns Hopkins University has admitted to the Class of 2020. These students join the 559 future Blue Jays already enrolled under the early decision plan. One student patented an electronically engineered tennis racquet. Another found a way to create an artificial leaf that's better than a real one at photosynthesis. Another won a film festival award for a public service announcement on domestic violence. The class not only breaks university records academically, but is also the most diverse to date. Nearly 37 percent of the admitted regular decision class identifies as members of underrepresented minorities. The students hail from 49 states plus Washington, D.C.,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/11/early-decision-class-of-2020/
Johns Hopkins welcomes first members of Class of 2020 | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins welcomes first members of Class of 2020 By Hub staff report / Published Dec 11, 2015 A group of 584 applicants are the first students offered admission to the Johns Hopkins University undergraduate Class of 2020, an academically diverse group chosen from a record number of high school students who applied early decision this fall to JHU. The applicants offered admission include researchers, innovators in a wide variety of fields, and social activists. Among them are a Korean robotics national champion, the creator of a new recycling system, a three-time national Scrabble champion, an entrepreneur who started an organization to promote bone marrow donations in Turkey, a sports columnist for Rolling Stone magazine, the founder of a project that raises money to build wells in Cambodia, a former Junior Olympic gymnast, a research intern at the Department of Defense, and an aquarium volunteer who taught an octopus how
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/23/quasar-slow-star-formation/
Far fewer stars are born due to intense radiation from quasars, researchers say | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
Hot out there Far fewer stars are born due to intense radiation from quasars, researchers say Evidence could explain why star formation has slowed significantly Image caption: In an artist's conception, heated galactic wind shown in the hazy portion of the picture emanates from the bright quasar at the edge of a black hole, scattering dust and gas. If allowed to cool, that dust and gas would begin to form stars. Credit: Johns Hopkins University illustration By Arthur Hirsch / Published March 23, 2016 Research led by Johns Hopkins University scientists has found new, persuasive evidence that could help solve a long-standing mystery in astrophysics: why did the pace of star formation in the universe slow down some 11 billion years ago? Scientists have puzzled for years over the question of why galaxies slowed their star-making pace to what astronomers estimate is now 30 times slower than their peak pace
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/24/baltimore-scholars-program-changes/
Johns Hopkins increases investment in restructured Baltimore Scholars Program | Hub
Tracey Reeves
Johns Hopkins increases investment in restructured Baltimore Scholars Program Focus shifts to high-achieving students with significant financial need By Tracey Reeves / Published March 24, 2016 The Johns Hopkins University will restructure its Baltimore Scholars Program to offer greater financial aid and more robust supports to high-achieving Baltimore City Public School graduates with significant financial need. The shift represents a boost in the university's financial investment in the program. Over the last five years, Johns Hopkins has spent $11.6 million on the Baltimore Scholars Program; in the next five, it will spend more than $20 million. Launched in 2004 to provide full-tuition scholarships to any admitted graduates of city public schools, the Baltimore Scholars Program is a reflection of the university's long-standing investment in Baltimore's students and schools. The program recognizes high-potential students from the communities around Johns Hopkins campuses and has attracted more than 180 of the city's brightest
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/25/series-examines-roots-discrimination-baltimore/
Conversation series to explore roots, realities of discrimination in Baltimore | Hub
Jill Rosen
Conversation series to explore roots, realities of discrimination in Baltimore Four events hosted by Johns Hopkins' 21st Century Cities Initiative By Jill Rosen / Published March 25, 2016 A year after the unrest in Baltimore sparked by the arrest and death of Freddie Gray, Johns Hopkins University is launching an art and conversation series to reflect on deep-rooted discrimination in the city and what the community can do about it. The series of four events, called Redlining Baltimore, will bring together academics, activists, civic leaders, residents, and local artists and musicians to engage in conversations about what the legacies of discrimination and segregation mean to the future of opportunity and inclusion in the city. The name of the series refers to the historical practice of denying services—health care, mortgage loans, even access to supermarkets—to residents in certain areas based on the racial or ethnic makeup of those areas. "What happened
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/04/blocal-baltimore-launch
 Johns Hopkins among 25 businesses teaming up to expand economic opportunities in Baltimore  | Hub
Tracey Reeves
BLOCAL Johns Hopkins among 25 businesses teaming up to expand economic opportunities in Baltimore BLocal initiative will invest $69M in programs to build, hire, buy locally Video: Len Turner and Dave Schmelick By Tracey Reeves / Published April 4, 2016 Johns Hopkins and 24 other Baltimore-area businesses unveiled a sweeping plan today, pledging to harness their collective influence to help strengthen the city by creating more economic opportunities. Image caption: From left: Ronald J. Daniels, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Bishop Douglas Miles, Diane Bell McKoy, Michael Cryor, Calvin J. Butler Jr., and Ronald R. Peterson Image credit: Jim Burger With the launch of the BLocal initiative—announced this morning at a news conference at Zion Baptist Church in East Baltimore—the founding companies are pledging to expand existing programs or launch new ones to build, hire, invest, and buy locally. They will spend more on design and construction contracts with local and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/04/global-health-signature-initiative-david-peters/
David Peters to lead Johns Hopkins' Global Health Signature Initiative  | Hub
Julie Messersmith
David Peters to lead Johns Hopkins' Global Health Signature Initiative By Julie Messersmith / Published April 4, 2016 David Peters, chair of the Department of International Health at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and an expert in the improvement of health systems performance, has been appointed director of Johns Hopkins' Global Health Signature Initiative. Image caption: David Peters Peters will work with faculty, staff, and students from across the institution to address pressing health issues around the world. "At Hopkins, we have the opportunity to bring together the best scientific and creative minds to collaboratively address health inequities," Peters says. "This initiative will mobilize and consolidate our expertise in order to address these complex problems facing the world's most disadvantaged people." The Global Health Signature Initiative, part of the Rising to the Challenge capital campaign, works to bring together scholars from public health, medicine, nursing, engineering, economics,
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/10/30/ebola-health-care-workers-obama
 Obama praises health care 'heroes' fighting Ebola epidemic, says they deserve our gratitude, respect | Hub
Hub staff report
Obama praises health care 'heroes' fighting Ebola epidemic, says they deserve our gratitude, respect 4 Johns Hopkins Ebola experts appear with president at White House Image caption: President Barack Obama praises U.S. health care workers fighting on the front lines of the Ebola epidemic during a news conference in the East Room of the White House on Wednesday. Four Johns Hopkins faculty members—Trish Perl, David Peters, Susan Krenn, and Tom Kirsch—were among the 12 medical workers who stood behind Obama on the podium. Credit: Bloomberg/Getty Images By Hub staff report / Published Oct 30, 2014 Four Ebola experts from Johns Hopkins University were among a dozen U.S. medical workers who stood with President Barack Obama on Wednesday afternoon at a news conference in the East Room of the White House during which the president praised health care workers serving on the front lines of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/07/blocal-sun-oped/
BLocal can 'shift the foundation of our local economic landscape,' initiative's leaders say | Hub
Hub staff report
Commentary BLocal can 'shift the foundation of our local economic landscape,' initiative's leaders say By Hub staff report / Published April 7, 2016 The three co-chairs of the recently unveiled BLocal initiative, a pledge by 25 local business designed to create economic opportunities in Baltimore, authored an op-ed for The Baltimore Sun today in which they write that BLocal "has the potential to shift the foundation of our local economic landscape" and to "tie our community together in new ways." In the op-ed, the authors—Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels; Calvin G. Butler Jr., chief executive officer of BGE; and Ronald R. Peterson, president of the Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System and executive vice president of Johns Hopkins Medicine—gave an overview of the initiative, which was announced Monday. They also noted that BLocal "stands as the commitment of 25 local organizations to this city and its future." More
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/04/blocal-baltimore-launch
 Johns Hopkins among 25 businesses teaming up to expand economic opportunities in Baltimore  | Hub
Tracey Reeves
BLOCAL Johns Hopkins among 25 businesses teaming up to expand economic opportunities in Baltimore BLocal initiative will invest $69M in programs to build, hire, buy locally Video: Len Turner and Dave Schmelick By Tracey Reeves / Published April 4, 2016 Johns Hopkins and 24 other Baltimore-area businesses unveiled a sweeping plan today, pledging to harness their collective influence to help strengthen the city by creating more economic opportunities. Image caption: From left: Ronald J. Daniels, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Bishop Douglas Miles, Diane Bell McKoy, Michael Cryor, Calvin J. Butler Jr., and Ronald R. Peterson Image credit: Jim Burger With the launch of the BLocal initiative—announced this morning at a news conference at Zion Baptist Church in East Baltimore—the founding companies are pledging to expand existing programs or launch new ones to build, hire, invest, and buy locally. They will spend more on design and construction contracts with local and
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/blocal/articles/
 Blocal | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Blocal Economic opportunity BLocal BUILD College Alumni Reverse Vendor Fair sparks connections and opportunities Published April 5, 2024 Event brings BUILD College alumni businesses together to showcase their work and forge new partnerships Community BLocal BUILD College celebrates eighth cohort Published Nov 13, 2023 The program helps local design and construction businesses grow through education and networking Economic Development BLocal partners celebrate power of collective impact Published Jan 12, 2023 Local organizations representing business, academia, medicine, and the nonprofits sector commit to leverage their influence to create economic opportunity in the city Community BLocal drives millions of dollars into Baltimore's economy Published May 15, 2019 At the end of the program's inaugural three-year term, partners report spending more than $280M for purchasing or construction with local and minority vendors and hiring more than 1,700 Baltimore residents Progress report BLocal program off to a promising start Published Dec 11,
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/hopkinslocal/articles/
 Hopkinslocal | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Hopkinslocal HopkinsLocal Continued commitment to economic inclusion, investment in Baltimore Published Feb 28, 2023 After exceeding initial HopkinsLocal goals over the past six years, Hopkins unveils new, ambitious goals to build, hire, buy, and invest locally Economic Development BLocal partners celebrate power of collective impact Published Jan 12, 2023 Local organizations representing business, academia, medicine, and the nonprofits sector commit to leverage their influence to create economic opportunity in the city Community Nurturing the commitment to the HopkinsLocal mission Published Dec 5, 2022 Celebration honored four employees for their efforts to support local economic inclusion and announced HopkinsLocal's expansion into the national capital region HopkinsLocal Johns Hopkins partners on small-business incubator Published Oct 20, 2022 New incubator in downtown Baltimore will provide office space, mentorship, and legal and marketing support for 26 small businesses in the JHU Office of Economic Development Small Business Cohort JustUs Dialogue Series emphasizes
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/04/blocal-baltimore-launch/
Johns Hopkins among 25 businesses teaming up to expand economic opportunities in Baltimore  | Hub
Tracey Reeves
BLOCAL Johns Hopkins among 25 businesses teaming up to expand economic opportunities in Baltimore BLocal initiative will invest $69M in programs to build, hire, buy locally Video: Len Turner and Dave Schmelick By Tracey Reeves / Published April 4, 2016 Johns Hopkins and 24 other Baltimore-area businesses unveiled a sweeping plan today, pledging to harness their collective influence to help strengthen the city by creating more economic opportunities. Image caption: From left: Ronald J. Daniels, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Bishop Douglas Miles, Diane Bell McKoy, Michael Cryor, Calvin J. Butler Jr., and Ronald R. Peterson Image credit: Jim Burger With the launch of the BLocal initiative—announced this morning at a news conference at Zion Baptist Church in East Baltimore—the founding companies are pledging to expand existing programs or launch new ones to build, hire, invest, and buy locally. They will spend more on design and construction contracts with local and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/11/hopkins-humanities-institute/
Johns Hopkins establishes institute for the humanities with $10 million gift | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Philanthropy Johns Hopkins establishes institute for the humanities with $10 million gift Commitment is largest ever for humanities research, education at JHU By Dennis O'Shea / Published April 11, 2016 Philanthropist Elizabeth Grass Weese and her brother, Roger Grass, have committed $10 million to advance humanities scholarship and teaching at the Johns Hopkins University and to promote literature, art, philosophy, history, and other cultural studies in Baltimore and the wider community. Their gift, through the Alexander Grass Foundation, is the largest ever to Johns Hopkins exclusively for the support of the humanities. It establishes the Alexander Grass Humanities Institute as a focal point and important sponsor of programming for 10 humanities departments in the university's Krieger School of Arts and Sciences, other departments in humanistic social sciences, and related centers and programs. Study in the humanities is central to Johns Hopkins' purpose as the nation's first research university. Beverly Wendland,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/15/hopkins-apo-hosts-college-fair/
Applying to college 101: Johns Hopkins students host college fair for Baltimore high-schoolers | Hub
Katie Pearce
Applying to college 101: Johns Hopkins students host college fair for Baltimore high-schoolers Alpha Phi Omega co-ed fraternity organizes event designed to make college admissions process less intimidating for applicants By Katie Pearce / Published April 15, 2016 At many high schools, including those in Baltimore, there's just a single college counselor serving hundreds (if not thousands) of students. Those numbers inevitably don't work out to a lot of individual attention for the juniors and seniors who are facing some of the biggest decisions of their young lives. Recognizing this deficiency, the Johns Hopkins co-ed service fraternity Alpha Phi Omega has organized an event to help Baltimore high-schoolers confront the college application process. The college fair takes place this Saturday from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Ballroom at Charles Commons on JHU's Homewood campus. "The idea is to engage and empathize and talk them through it, and let
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/19/coming-of-age-in-the-other-america-deluca/
Johns Hopkins sociologists take in-depth look at disparate paths of Baltimore youth | Hub
Katie Pearce
Johns Hopkins sociologists take in-depth look at disparate paths of Baltimore youth Stefanie DeLuca, Kathryn Edin among co-authors of recently released 'Coming of Age in the Other America' By Katie Pearce / Published April 19, 2016 Not all research happens in a lab. In the case of the newly released Coming of Age in the Other America, co-authored by Johns Hopkins sociologist Stefanie DeLuca, the core research took place on sofas and at kitchen tables in Baltimore homes. To get a sense of how children born into city public housing in the 1980s and 1990s were faring as young adults, she spent hours interviewing them in their own houses. The process turned out to be "incredibly intimate," she says. "You sit down with a stranger, and if you're doing your work well, you're able to create the kind of conversation that invites vulnerability, humor, and honesty ... in exchange for
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/22/nine-east-33rd-student-apartments/
New off-campus housing option for Johns Hopkins students to open this fall | Hub
Hub staff report
New off-campus housing option for Johns Hopkins students to open this fall Nine East 33rd, located in Charles Village, accepting applications for fall occupancy; $1,000 incentive available for new occupants, referrals Image caption: An artist's rendering of the new streetscaping along 33rd Street approaching Johns Hopkins University's Homewood campus and the new Nine East 33rd property (left). Credit: Design Collective By Hub staff report / Published April 22, 2016 A new off-campus housing option for Johns Hopkins University students will open its doors this fall, part of a new mixed-use development project near the university's Homewood campus, and significant financial incentives are available for those who submit applications in the next few weeks. Nine East 33rd, situated at the intersection of St. Paul and 33rd streets in Charles Village, is currently accepting applications for soon-to-be-completed one-, two-, three-, and four-bedroom apartments. The units will be available for occupancy beginning Aug.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/04/thomas-dolby-hip-hop-class/
Young MCs: Middle-schoolers record, mix their own music at new JHU-MICA Film Centre | Hub
Julie Scharper
Young MCs: Middle-schoolers record, mix their own music at new JHU-MICA Film Centre Performer, producer, and Johns Hopkins Professor Thomas Dolby helps launch after-school workshop for aspiring artists Video: Deirdre Hammer By Julie Scharper / Published May 4, 2016 Like many seventh-graders, Lidiya Muche and Kaziyah Della like to scrawl lyrics about boys and broken hearts on their notebooks in big, bubbly letters. But unlike most Baltimore City middle school students, the girls use the latest technology to record their songs, mix beats, and tinker with tones. And their guide into the world of producing is the acclaimed musician Thomas Dolby. The girls are among a dozen Margaret Brent Middle School students who are learning how to record and produce music through a partnership with the JHU/MICA Film Centre in Station North. On 10 Friday afternoons, the students rush the half-mile from their school to the newly renovated Centre Theater
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/09/carol-greider-american-philosophical-society/
Hopkins molecular biologist Carol Greider elected to American Philosophical Society | Hub
Hub staff report
Hopkins molecular biologist Carol Greider elected to American Philosophical Society By Hub staff report / Published May 9, 2016 Carol Greider, a Nobel laureate and molecular biologist at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, has been elected to the American Philosophical Society, which recognizes academics for extraordinary intellectual accomplishments in their fields of expertise. She joins five other researchers elected this year from the biological sciences, in addition to 27 from other academic fields as varied as mathematics and the arts. Image caption: Carol Greider Greider is a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins and the Daniel Nathans Professor and Director of the Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics in the Johns Hopkins Institute for Basic Biomedical Sciences. She shared the 2009 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for her discovery in 1984 of telomerase, an enzyme that maintains protective "caps" on the ends of chromosomes. Over the years,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/13/space-at-hopkins-launches/
Space@Hopkins initiative launches with goal of bringing researchers together | Hub
Katie Pearce
Space@Hopkins initiative launches with goal of bringing researchers together By Katie Pearce / Published May 13, 2016 Though Johns Hopkins University has a long history with space studies that dates to before the founding of NASA, Charles Bennett couldn't help but notice how disconnected these research efforts have become across the institution. Image caption: Charles Bennett "We're a very major hub of space activity in this country, but the activities have been separate, and there's never been anything that ties them together," says Bennett, a professor of physics and astronomy and a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Hopkins. Over the years, Bennett's conversations with colleagues have revealed a shared interest in somehow uniting these disparate activities—which span dozens of Hopkins divisions, from the Applied Physics Laboratory's space missions to physicists studying black holes. The new Space@Hopkins initiative is an attempt to knit the threads together. The effort, which launched last month,
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/15/bloomberg-distinguished-professors-bennett-and-feinberg
 JHU's Charles Bennett and Andrew Feinberg named Bloomberg Distinguished Professors | Hub
Julie Messersmith
JHU's Charles Bennett and Andrew Feinberg named Bloomberg Distinguished Professors Image caption: Andrew Feinberg and Charles Bennett Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Julie Messersmith / Published Dec 15, 2015 One is exploring the origin and evolution of all of space; the other is floating in its simulated conditions to develop pioneering genetic sequencing techniques at zero gravity. Johns Hopkins' two newest Bloomberg Distinguished Professors are definitely out of this world. Charles "Chuck" Bennett, currently the Alumni Centennial Professor of Physics and Astronomy and Gilman Scholar in the Krieger School of Arts and Sciences, will be the first Bloomberg Distinguished Professor to hold a joint appointment with the Applied Physics Laboratory, as a senior scientist. In step with One University goals to foster interdisciplinary collaboration across divisions, Bennett will direct Space@Hopkins, a new space studies initiative. Space@Hopkins will unify space-related activities across the institution in robotics, astronaut health,
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/andrew-feinberg/articles/
 Andrew feinberg | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Andrew feinberg Faculty honors Five from JHU elected to AIMBE College of Fellows Published March 25, 2024 Recognition honors individuals who have made outstanding contributions to engineering and medicine research, practice, or education Study looks at how astronaut's body changed in space Published April 11, 2019 JHU's Andrew Feinberg finds that after year-long NASA mission to the International Space Station, astronaut Scott Kelly had no lingering, major epigenetic differences from his earthbound twin, Mark Epigenetics Decoding brain changes that coincide with psychiatric disorders Published Jan 22, 2019 Scientists discover epigenetic variances in neurons in parts of the brain linked with addictive behavior, schizophrenia, and other neuroses Epigenetics The nature and nurture of human illness Published Oct 25, 2016 Scientists seek better understanding of how genetic, environmental factors join forces to cause disease Interdisciplinary Two new Bloomberg Distinguished Professors Published Dec 15, 2015 Esteemed Johns Hopkins faculty members Charles
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/19/class-telescope-first-light/
High-powered telescope peering into origins of universe receives 'first light' | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
High-powered telescope peering into origins of universe receives 'first light' Johns Hopkins scientists begin analyzing data from 13.8 billion-year-old radiation Image caption: The CLASS observatory stands at a17,000-foot elevation in the Atacama desert of northern Chile. This photograph shows the telescope against a backdrop of the Milky Way. Credit: COURTESY OF MATTHEW PETROFF OF THE CLASS TEAM By Arthur Hirsch / Published May 19, 2016 High in the Andes Mountains of northern Chile, a unique Johns Hopkins University observatory has just achieved "first light," the first time the telescope has collected radiation from space. First light came with a series of observations of the moon used to verify the proper operation of the telescope. But the real goals of the Cosmology Large Angular Scale Surveyor, or CLASS, telescope are to make a precise determination of cosmic dawn—when the stars in the first galaxies formed—and to characterize what happened in the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/13/commemorative-stamps-apl-space-missions/
New stamps commemorate APL space missions to Pluto, Mercury | Hub
Michael Buckley
New stamps commemorate APL space missions to Pluto, Mercury Image caption: New “Pluto—Explored!” postage stamps feature an image of NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft, based on artwork created by APL graphic artist Steve Gribben. Credit: Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory By Michael Buckley / Published June 13, 2016 The U.S. Postal Service recently debuted two new stamp sets that feature prominent Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory space missions. The "Pluto—Explored!" set commemorates the July 2015 flyby of Pluto by the New Horizons spacecraft; "Views of Our Planets" features iconic images of the planets in our solar system, including an image of Mercury from the MESSENGER mission. The first-day-of-issue dedication ceremony for both sets of Forever stamps was held May 31 at the World Stamp Show in New York City. In dedicating the stamps, USPS Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President David Williams noted, "In 2006, NASA placed a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/21/restaurants-coffee-shops-nine-east-33rd/
Restaurants, coffee shop planned for new building near JHU's Homewood campus | Hub
Hub staff report
Restaurants, coffee shop planned for new building near JHU's Homewood campus Off-campus student housing complex Nine East 33rd will feature Spike Gjerde's Bird in Hand, PekoPeko Ramen, honeygrow fast-casual chain By Hub staff report / Published June 21, 2016 Two new restaurants and a coffee shop will occupy retail space in the new Nine East 33rd building, an off-campus student housing complex under construction at the intersection of St. Paul and 33rd streets in Baltimore's Charles Village neighborhood. Image caption: An early conceptual design (not a final design) of the planned mixed-use development on Johns Hopkins University property at 3200 St. Paul St. in Baltimore. Image credit: ARMADA HOFFLER PROPERTIES/DESIGN COLLECTIVE/JHU PekoPeko Ramen, a noodle restaurant owned by alum David Forster, will feature ramen, Japanese rice bowls, and other sides. And honeygrow, a Philadelphia-based fast-casual chain that emphasizes locally sourced ingredients, will serve stir-fry bowls, salads, smoothies, and build-your-own desserts.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/07/13/east-baltimore-vigil/
Vigil on Johns Hopkins' East Baltimore campus brings healing, hope | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
'Stand together' Vigil on Johns Hopkins' East Baltimore campus brings healing, hope School of Medicine students organize gathering to protest recent acts of violence across the U.S. Image caption: A small crowd gathered outside the Armstrong Medical Education Building on Johns Hopkins' East Baltimore campus on Tuesday afternoon for a vigil and moment of silence to honor the victims of recent acts of violence that have shaken the nation. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Saralyn Lyons / Published July 13, 2016 A crowd assembled Tuesday afternoon on Johns Hopkins University's East Baltimore campus—just steps away from where a 2014 student-organized "die-in" took place—to protest the recent acts of violence that have shaken the nation. "We as a community stand together to say that the injustices faced by those within our community and the communities we serve will not be tolerated." Miriam Akeju, JHU graduate student Those joining
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/12/11/hopkins-die-in-protests/
 Johns Hopkins students stage 'die-in' protests in wake of police killings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins students stage 'die-in' protests in wake of police killings Hundreds take part in peaceful demonstrations on university's Homewood, East Baltimore campuses By Hub staff report / Published Dec 11, 2014 Hundreds of students at Johns Hopkins University's Homewood and East Baltimore campuses participated in staged "die-ins" this week, joining a nationwide protest movement in the wake of the high-profile deaths of two unarmed black men—Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, and Eric Garner in New York City—at the hands of police. On Tuesday night, a large group made up mostly of undergraduate students (organizers estimated about 120 people participated) staged a peaceful demonstration at the Brody Learning Commons, lying on the floor on the library's B and Q levels as visitors stepped over them. The protest lasted 45 minutes, representing the four and a half hours that Brown's body remained on a Ferguson street after he was fatally shot
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/activism/articles/
 Activism | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Activism Q+A On the frontlines of dissent Published Oct 7, 2022 Zimbabwean activist Evan Mawarire, first dissident in residence at SNF Agora, speaks Oct. 11 on the Homewood campus Tomorrow's changemakers Published March 8, 2022 A new program developed by two Jhpiego board members fosters the next generation of activists Speaker series Foreign Affairs Symposium lineup set Published Feb 3, 2020 Visitors to campus this spring include activists Joshua Wong and Nathan Law, Xiuhtezcatl Martinez, Muzoon Almellehan, and Angela Davis MSE Symposium 'Fighting for the right to have rights' Published Nov 21, 2019 For eight years, Farida Nabourema has been the face of opposition to the Togolese government—a dangerous role, considering the president's critics are often arrested, kidnapped, or killed. Intersession A counter-narrative for the future Published Jan 24, 2019 Course examines how African-American science fiction authors and activists alike grapple with the past and create alternative paths
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/civil-rights/articles/
 Civil rights | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Civil rights History Students united Published Nov 7, 2022 Baltimore Polytechnic Institute students and Hopkins undergrads come together to learn about Baltimore's civil rights history Common read An activist's history Published Aug 29, 2018 First-year students read, discuss Jo Ann Gibson Robinson's memoir 'The Montgomery Bus Boycott and the Women Who Started It' Race in America Beyond 'I Have a Dream' Published April 27, 2018 Friends of Martin Luther King Jr. reflect on his 'Drum Major Instinct' sermon of 1968 Race in America A 'radically different' reflection Published April 24, 2018 Martin Luther King Jr.'s words fuel 'The Drum Major Instinct,' which comes to JHU on April 26 Hopkins history 'A time of great pain' Published April 11, 2018 JHU's Homewood campus was largely insulated from the unrest following the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. in 1968, but many on campus were moved to action Women's history
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/police/articles/
 Police | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Police Voices Justice for all? Published June 7, 2023 Political scientist and sociologist Vesla Weaver listens to the voices of people whose experience of democracy, citizenship, and government is completely different from that of those not living under police surveillance Study consults experts on policing: The policed Published July 7, 2020 Portals Policing Project, co-led by sociologist Vesla Weaver, centers on the lived experiences of people in cities with heavy law enforcement presence in order to gain insights on justice and democracy Policing+Community A focused approach to policing could reduce gun violence Published June 15, 2020 Survey of residents in areas of Baltimore most affected by gun violence finds that "stop-and-search" policing isn't effective, erodes community trust in police; New report outlines recommendations Q+A American policing in the Cold War era Published Oct 16, 2019 In his new book, Stuart Schrader explores how U.S. foreign policy designed to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/08/martin-luther-king-commemoration-watkins/
34th annual MLK Jr. Commemoration at Johns Hopkins celebrates event's late founder, Levi Watkins | Hub
Katie Pearce
34th annual MLK Jr. Commemoration at Johns Hopkins celebrates event's late founder, Levi Watkins Image caption: Denyce Graves and Levi Garraway were the featured speakers at the 34th annual Martin Luther King Jr. Commemoration at Johns Hopkins. Credit: Keith Weller By Katie Pearce / Published Jan 8, 2016 A glaring absence could be felt in every aspect of this year's 34th Martin Luther King Jr. Commemoration event at Johns Hopkins, the first without its founder, Levi Watkins Jr. Renowned for his both his medical and civil rights accomplishments at Hopkins, Watkins died in April at the age of 70. "This is a very difficult and emotional time," said Kenneth Grant, vice president of General Services at The Johns Hopkins Hospital, at the packed event on Friday afternoon. "For 33 years the person behind the mic was our friend and colleague, Dr. Levi Watkins." Watch an archived broadcast of the 2016
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/12/levi-watkins-jr-obit
 Levi Watkins Jr., pioneering Hopkins cardiac surgeon and civil rights activist, dies at 70 | Hub
Hub staff report
Levi Watkins Jr., pioneering Hopkins cardiac surgeon and civil rights activist, dies at 70 By Hub staff report / Published April 12, 2015 Levi Watkins Jr., a pioneer in both cardiac surgery and civil rights who implanted the first automatic heart defibrillator in a patient and was instrumental in recruiting minority students to the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, died Saturday of complications from a stroke. He was 70. Image caption: Levi Watkins Jr. Watkins came to Johns Hopkins in 1970 as a general surgery intern and retired in 2013 after serving as an exemplary surgeon and inspirational leader for 43 years. "He remained as powerful a presence and as important an influence on Johns Hopkins as he was when he arrived here," Paul B. Rothman, dean of the medical faculty, and Ronald R. Peterson, president of The Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System, wrote in a message to
http://hub.jhu.edu/at-work/2016/01/05/mlk-jr-community-service-awards
 Employees honored with Martin Luther King Jr. Community Service Awards | Hub
Hub staff report
Employees honored with Martin Luther King Jr. Community Service Awards Image caption: Front row: Kekoa Taparra, April Holmes, Lee Keagle, and Carla Beckford. Rear: Joe Smith, Corey Williams, Annie Umbricht, and Jelani Zarif. Credit: KEITH WELLER By Hub staff report / Published Jan 5, 2016 Four university and four health system employees will be honored with Martin Luther King Jr. Community Service Awards at the 34th annual commemoration of the civil rights leader to be held from noon to 1:30 p.m. on Friday, Jan. 8, in Turner Auditorium on the East Baltimore campus. The university recipients and the work for which they are being recognized are as follows: Joe Smith, director of Local Government Affairs in the Office of Government and Community Affairs, has been giving his time to help others for nearly half a century. His volunteer efforts have focused on the Bethel AME Church scholarship ministry and the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/12/levi-watkins-jr-obit/
Levi Watkins Jr., pioneering Hopkins cardiac surgeon and civil rights activist, dies at 70 | Hub
Hub staff report
Levi Watkins Jr., pioneering Hopkins cardiac surgeon and civil rights activist, dies at 70 By Hub staff report / Published April 12, 2015 Levi Watkins Jr., a pioneer in both cardiac surgery and civil rights who implanted the first automatic heart defibrillator in a patient and was instrumental in recruiting minority students to the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, died Saturday of complications from a stroke. He was 70. Image caption: Levi Watkins Jr. Watkins came to Johns Hopkins in 1970 as a general surgery intern and retired in 2013 after serving as an exemplary surgeon and inspirational leader for 43 years. "He remained as powerful a presence and as important an influence on Johns Hopkins as he was when he arrived here," Paul B. Rothman, dean of the medical faculty, and Ronald R. Peterson, president of The Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System, wrote in a message to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/25/levi-watkins-memorial-remembrance/
Johns Hopkins community remembers life, legacy of cardiac surgeon, civil rights pioneer Levi Watkins Jr. | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins community remembers life, legacy of cardiac surgeon, civil rights pioneer Levi Watkins Jr. Video: Hopkins Medicine By Hub staff report / Published Sept 25, 2015 Colleagues, family members, and others from across the Johns Hopkins community gathered Thursday afternoon at Turner Auditorium in East Baltimore to remember Levi Watkins Jr., a pioneer in both cardiac surgery and civil rights who died in April at age 70. Watkins is best known for implanting the first automatic heart defibrillator in a patient, recruiting minority students to the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, and founding the annual Johns Hopkins Martin Luther King Jr. Commemoration event. He joined Johns Hopkins Medicine in 1970 as a surgical intern and, after a research stint at Harvard Medical School, became The Johns Hopkins Hospital's first black chief resident in cardiac surgery. On Thursday, those who worked with—and learned from—Watkins spoke about his impact on medicine
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/11/bree-newsome-charles-commons-talk/
Bree Newsome, who brought down Confederate flag in S.C., talks activism, action during Johns Hopkins visit | Hub
Katie Pearce
Bree Newsome, who brought down Confederate flag in S.C., talks activism, action during Johns Hopkins visit Image caption: Activist Bree Newsome speaks at a "Candid Conversations in the Commons" event hosted by JHU's Office of Multicultural Affairs. Credit: Larry Canner By Katie Pearce / Published Feb 11, 2016 During the loaded Confederate flag controversy in South Carolina this past summer, one image stood out: That of a young woman scaling the 30-foot flagpole in front of the statehouse in Columbia, physically removing the red-and-blue flag by hand. That activist, Bree Newsome, visited Johns Hopkins University on Wednesday evening to talk about that memorable event, and about activism in general. Newsome—who was promptly handcuffed and arrested once she shimmied back down to the ground following her June 25 act of protest—is recognized as a catalyst for the flag's official removal less than three weeks later, by order of law. The battle
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/22/baltimore-police-hopkins-collaborative/
Johns Hopkins researchers, Baltimore police to work together to study, reduce violent crime | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins researchers, Baltimore police to work together to study, reduce violent crime Daniel Webster, Sheldon Greenberg to lead collaborative effort By Hub staff report / Published Feb 22, 2016 Johns Hopkins University and the Baltimore Police Department announced today a joint effort to apply data and research to policing in hopes of reducing violent crime. Image caption: JHU President Ronald J. Daniels speaks at a news conference announcing a partnership between Johns Hopkins and Baltimore police aimed at reducing violent crime. The Johns Hopkins-Baltimore Collaborative for Violence Reduction will promote, develop, and evaluate interventions aimed at curbing violence. "We know that persistent violence in Baltimore tears at the fabric of our neighborhood and of our city," Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels said at a news conference this morning announcing the partnership. "You don't have to look very far to see the pain that violence is causing the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/23/police-reform-panel/
Will a tumultuous year prompt changes in the nation's police departments? | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Will a tumultuous year prompt changes in the nation's police departments? Panelists discuss the future of policing in Baltimore, America as part of student-run Foreign Affairs Symposium By Saralyn Lyons / Published March 23, 2016 The past year has redefined the future of America's policing in many ways, Baltimore City Police Commissioner Kevin Davis suggested Tuesday night at a Foreign Affairs Symposium panel discussion at Johns Hopkins University. Image caption: Panelists speaking at the Foreign Affairs Symposium, from left: Linda Sarsour, Mark Puente, Margaret Huang, Nick Mosby, and Kevin Davis. "We're in a sea change," he said. But Linda Sarsour, executive director of the Arab American Association who also participated on the panel, argued that 2015 was not that unusual for members of minority communities who are disproportionately targeted by police. "I don't know about you, but nothing changed for me in 2015," she said. "It's not a year where
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/14/rise2016-judah-adashi-baltimore-premiere/
Judah Adashi revisits 'Rise,' his choral reflection on America's civil rights struggles | Hub
Bret McCabe
Q+A Judah Adashi revisits 'Rise,' his choral reflection on America's civil rights struggles Work gets Baltimore premiere on April 19 at Mount Vernon Place United Methodist Church Image caption: Peabody Institute faculty composer Judah Adashi By Bret McCabe / Published April 14, 2016 On the morning April 19, 2015, Peabody Institute faculty composer Judah Adashi was getting ready to head to Washington, D.C. for the world premiere of his work Rise, a collaboration with poet and playwright Tameka Cage Conley. For both Adashi and Cage Conley, Rise was a meditation on 50 years of civil rights struggle in America, a reflection on how much and how little changed in the half century between the Bloody Sunday march on the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, in 1965 and the birth of the Black Lives Matter movement. The choral piece was commissioned by the Cantate Chamber Singers and included Howard University's
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/17/judah-adashi-rise/
Peabody's Adashi ponders 50 years of the civil rights movement with 'Rise' | Hub
Bret McCabe
Peabody's Adashi ponders 50 years of the civil rights movement with 'Rise' New work for double chorus, chamber ensemble debuts Sunday By Bret McCabe / Published April 17, 2015 With his new work Rise, Peabody Institute faculty composer Judah Adashi considers how far Americans have come since the since the civil rights movement of the 1960s while acknowledging the steep climb toward social justice that remains. The new piece for double chorus and chamber ensemble is a collaboration with poet and playwright Tameka Cage Conley, and it includes text from a few of poems she wrote for the project. Image caption: Judah Adashi Image credit: Britt Olsen-Ecker Adashi, Conley, and Washington Week and PBS NewsHour journalist Gwen Ifill present the world debut of Rise on Sunday at 5 p.m. at the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church in Washington, D.C. The work will be performed by the Cantate Chamber Singers and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/17/pride-lights-charles-street-gateway/
Johns Hopkins lights up gateway on Charles Street in solidarity with LGBTQ community | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins lights up gateway on Charles Street in solidarity with LGBTQ community Credit: Shiv Gandhi / homewoodphoto.jhu.edu By Hub staff report / Published June 17, 2016 Red stands for life. Orange stands for healing. Yellow, for sunlight, and green, for nature. Indigo means harmony. And purple represents spirit. The colors of the pride flag, signifying solidarity with the LGBTQ community, will light up the Johns Hopkins University gateway on Charles Street through June 28. The color lighting comes in the wake of last week's attack on an Orlando nightclub—the deadliest mass shooting by a single gunman in American history, as well as the deadliest act of terrorism in the U.S. since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. The Johns Hopkins community has banded together to mourn the victims and show support for the LGBTQ community. "With pride, with empathy, and with hope for a better, safer, more humane future
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/15/orlando-shootings-healing-session-lgbtq/
Johns Hopkins community grapples with Orlando shootings | Hub
Katie Pearce
Johns Hopkins community grapples with Orlando shootings LGBTQ Life plans healing session for June 16 By Katie Pearce / Published June 15, 2016 Image caption: Baltimore's candlelight vigil for Orlando Image credit: Twitter In response to last weekend's tragedy in Orlando, the LGBTQ community and others at Johns Hopkins have been looking for ways to band together—perhaps not to make sense of the violence, because that could prove impossible, but at least to process it in some way. Today in the late afternoon, the LGBTQ Life office will host an event it calls a "healing session" at Hopkins Square. There will be conversation, a quiet space, and a variety of craft supplies for making art, according to the Facebook event listing, which invites people to "come join your chosen family in community to do whatever signifies healing for you." "There's not a lot of things that can be done concretely
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/07/18/fracking-asthma-attacks-study/
Study links fracking industry wells to increased risk of asthma attacks | Hub
Barbara Benham
Environmental health Study links fracking industry wells to increased risk of asthma attacks By Barbara Benham / Published July 18, 2016 People with asthma who live near bigger or larger numbers of active unconventional natural gas wells operated by the fracking industry in Pennsylvania are 1.5 to four times likelier to have asthma attacks than those who live farther away, new research from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health suggests. The findings, published today in JAMA Internal Medicine, add to a growing body of evidence tying the fracking industry to health concerns. Health officials have been concerned about the effect of this type of drilling on air and water quality, as well as the stress of living near a well. Those who lived closer to a large number or bigger active natural gas wells were significantly more likely—1.5 to four times more likely—to suffer asthma attacks. Simply developing
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/07/28/rio-olympics-swimming-hopkins/
Johns Hopkins Olympians swimming with the big fish in Rio | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Johns Hopkins Olympians swimming with the big fish in Rio One-time Blue Jays Ana Bogdanovski, Pilar Shimizu will represent their countries at the 2016 Summer Games in Brazil By Dennis O'Shea / Published July 28, 2016 NCAA champion Georgia has five women swimmers heading to the Rio Olympics. Cal-Berkeley, the 2015 NCAA winner, has four. And Johns Hopkins – yes, tiny Division III Johns Hopkins – has two. Not bad. Rising senior Pilar Shimizu will represent Guam in a second straight Olympics. Ana Bogdanovski, a 2015 graduate and perhaps the university's greatest-ever swimmer, is a first-time Olympian for Macedonia. Image caption: Ana Bogdanovski, who won 10 Division III national titles in her four years at Johns Hopkins, will swim for Macedonia at the Summer Olympics in Rio. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Bogdanovski, Macedonia's flag bearer for the opening ceremony, will swim the 200-meter freestyle, one of
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/04/bogdanovski-ncaa-top-30-nominee/
 Johns Hopkins swimmer among 30 nominees for NCAA Woman of the Year honor | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins swimmer among 30 nominees for NCAA Woman of the Year honor Ana Bogdanovski, who graduated in May, earned school-record 10 NCAA titles during her career with Blue Jays By Hub staff report / Published Sept 4, 2015 Swimmer Ana Bogdanovski, a 2015 Johns Hopkins University graduate, has been selected as an NCAA Woman of the Year top 30 nominee, the first-ever Hopkins athlete included among the 30 finalists for this prestigious honor. Image caption: Ana Bogdanovski Bogdanovski, who captured 10 NCAA titles and earned All-America honors 23 times in her Blue Jays career, is one of 10 Division III athletes honored and one of five swimmers. The NCAA Woman of the Year top 30 honorees, selected from an initial group of 480 nominees, exemplify excellence in academics, athletics, community service, and leadership. Later this month, a selection committee will name nine finalists—three women each Divisions I, II, and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/02/water-conservation-ferraro-bloomberg-view/
Efforts to reduce water use in agriculture could end up having the opposite effect | Hub
Hub staff report
Commentary Efforts to reduce water use in agriculture could end up having the opposite effect Johns Hopkins expert urges evidence-based approach to environmental programs By Hub staff report / Published Aug 2, 2016 Image caption: Paul Ferraro Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Steps designed to increase water efficiency in domestic agriculture could, in fact, result in more water use, Johns Hopkins University's environmental economist Paul Ferraro writes in a commentary published today by Bloomberg View. Ferraro—a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor in JHU's Carey Business School and Whiting School of Engineering and co-director of the Center for Behavioral and Experimental Agri-Environmental Research—focuses his research on determining whether conservation technologies or measures really work. "Environmental problems are largely human behavior problems," Ferraro told JHU Engineering magazine recently. "They aren't biological or chemical problems. The key that's often missing is an understanding of human behavior. Why is someone behaving in a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/03/carl-wu-bloomberg-distinguished-professor/
Renowned scientist Carl Wu named Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Hub staff report
Interdisciplinary scholar Renowned scientist Carl Wu named Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins New Johns Hopkins lab will advance Wu's research on chromatin structure, gene regulation Image caption: Carl Wu, a widely recognized expert on chromatin biology and biochemistry, has joined Johns Hopkins University as its 23rd Bloomberg Distinguished Professor. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Aug 3, 2016 Carl Wu, a widely recognized expert on chromatin biology and biochemistry, has joined Johns Hopkins University as a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor. Wu, a member of both the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Medicine, intends to set up a one-of-a-kind laboratory at Johns Hopkins dedicated to the understanding of chromatin structure and gene expression—the areas that have commanded his focus since the start of his career. Wu's research on these subjects over the years have helped elevate chromatin regulation to one
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/01/26/bloomberg-gift/
 Michael R. Bloomberg commits $350 million to Johns Hopkins for transformational academic initiative  | Hub
Hub staff report
Michael R. Bloomberg commits $350 million to Johns Hopkins for transformational academic initiative New York Mayor believed first to give lifetime $1 billion to one U.S. higher education institution By Hub staff report / Published Jan 26, 2013 Philanthropist and New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has committed $350 million to Johns Hopkins University, anchoring a major initiative aimed at bringing significant innovation to U.S. higher education. The total commitment – the largest ever to the university – lifts Bloomberg's lifetime giving to Johns Hopkins beyond $1 billion. The majority of the new gift, $250 million out of $350 million, will be part of a larger effort to raise $1 billion to facilitate cross-disciplinary work across the university to galvanize people, resources, research and educational opportunities around a set of complex global challenges. Initially, the funds will be used to support the appointment of faculty in the areas of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/23/npr-kathy-edin-extreme-poverty-welfare-reform/
How Clinton-era welfare reform failed millions of Americans | Hub
Hub staff report
Sociology How Clinton-era welfare reform failed millions of Americans In NPR report, Johns Hopkins sociologist Kathy Edin explores legacy of TANF By Hub staff report / Published Aug 23, 2016 With the passage of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, President Bill Clinton pledged to change welfare as we know it. Twenty years later, Johns Hopkins University sociologist Kathy Edin says maybe that wasn't such a good thing. Image caption: Kathy Edin Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University In a segment that aired Sunday on NPR's "All Things Considered", Edin, an expert on poverty and a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at JHU, explains how the new form of welfare, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or TANF, has failed those who need it most. "Over time ... TANF became less and less responsive to those times in families' lives when work failed them, and so they
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/02/kathryn-edin-new-york-times-book-review-100-notable/
 Book co-authored by JHU's Kathryn Edin among 2015's 'notable' reads | Hub
Hub staff report
Book co-authored by JHU's Kathryn Edin among 2015's 'notable' reads '$2.00 a Day' included on annual list compiled by 'The New York Times Book Review' By Hub staff report / Published Dec 2, 2015 A book co-authored by Johns Hopkins University's Kathryn Edin's, $2.00 a Day: Living on Almost Nothing in America, has been included on The New York Times Book Review's 100 Notable Books of 2015 list. In the book, Edin, a sociologist and Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at JHU, documents extreme poverty in the U.S. with her co-author, H. Luke Shaefer. They used the World Bank's standard for poverty—$2 per person per day—to determine how many U.S. families currently live in extreme poverty. Their findings shocked them: In a given month, there are 1.5 million American families, including 3 million children that meet the criteria. "This essential book is a call to action, and one hopes it will accomplish
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/books/articles/
 Books | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Books Arts+Culture Cherry tree trailblazer Published March 21, 2024 Alumna biographer Diana Parsell discovers Eliza Scidmore, the forgotten heroine behind Washington's celebrated cherry trees Hopkins in D.C. Hopkins Bloomberg Center launches Authors & Insights series Published Oct 30, 2023 Series starts with book events featuring 'New York Times' author and columnist David Leonhardt, SAIS expert Eliot Cohen Psychiatry A history of healing Published Summer 2023 Kay Redfield Jamison discusses her latest book, which takes a nonlinear approach to cataloging the history of psychotherapy / Johns Hopkins Magazine Seeing Robert Wilson plain Published Winter 2018 Hopkins is home to the bookseller's obsessively collected cache of Gertrude Stein books and ephemera / Johns Hopkins Magazine Nonfiction Faculty authors included on best books list Published Dec 7, 2017 Lawrence Jackson, Kay Redfield Jamison recognized for their biographies of 20th century writers Best of 2016 Lester Spence gets year-end shoutout from 'The
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/14/cristin-aptowicz-mutter/
Cristin O'Keefe Aptowicz visits Barnes & Noble to talk about Dr. Thomas Dent Mutter | Hub
Bret McCabe
Cristin O'Keefe Aptowicz visits Barnes & Noble to talk about Dr. Thomas Dent Mutter Her book 'Dr. Mutter's Marvels' examines the man behind the famed museum of medical oddities Image caption: Cristin O'Keefe Aptowicz By Bret McCabe / Published Sept 14, 2015 For more than 150 years the Mutter Museum of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia has housed a collection of medical and anatomical oddities, such as the complete skeleton of a man who suffered from fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive disease, which caused his muscles and tendons to ossify, Albert Einstein's brain, and 139 human skulls. It's one of the world's more impressive medical museums, but it's namesake doesn't even have a Wikipedia page. Poet and writer Cristin O'Keefe Aptowicz grew up in Philadelphia hearing about and going to the museum without ever knowing who this Mütter was. She spent nearly 15 years finding out, resulting in last year's Dr.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/04/zadie-smith-new-book/
Author Zadie Smith shares bits of her unpublished fourth novel, 'Swing, Time' | Hub
Katie Pearce
Author Zadie Smith shares bits of her unpublished fourth novel, 'Swing, Time' New work, to be published next fall, explores acclaimed British writer's enduring fascinations with class, race Credit: Larry Canner By Katie Pearce / Published Nov 4, 2015 Zadie Smith has said her new novel, her first since 2012's NW, concerns itself with "tap dancing, blackness, and time." The author shared two chapters of the unpublished work Tuesday night with a full crowd at Johns Hopkins University. Image credit: Larry Canner The forthcoming novel, Swing, Time, is about "two brown girls," Smith said—both biracial, both dancers, who grow up together in a poor London neighborhood but diverge in adulthood in the 1990s. The feistier one, Tracy, pursues dancing professionally, while the unnamed first-person narrator becomes a personal assistant to a pop star. Swing, Time will be the fourth full-length work of fiction for the award-winning British author and essayist,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/24/abell-award-winners-2016-trash-wheel/
Tracking trash: Hopkins students propose simple ideas to help make Baltimore's streets cleaner  | Hub
Hub staff report
Tracking trash: Hopkins students propose simple ideas to help make Baltimore's streets cleaner Two PhD candidates receive Abell Foundation's Award in Urban Policy Image caption: The Inner Harbor Water Wheel 'Mr. Trash Wheel' Credit: Waterfront Partnership of Baltimore By Hub staff report / Published Aug 24, 2016 Two Johns Hopkins University students decided to take on a persistent problem facing Baltimore after finding inspiration in an unlikely source: an anthropomorphized, googly-eyed harbor trash collector dubbed "Mr. Trash Wheel." Chris Kelley, a PhD candidate studying geography and environmental engineering at JHU's Whiting School of Engineering, and Ramya Ambikapathi, a PhD candidate studying human nutrition at the Bloomberg School of Public Health, say they have grown accustomed to seeing litter on the city's streets. But when they realized how much trash winds up in Baltimore's Inner Harbor, they decided to tackle litter as a public policy problem. Image caption: Chris Kelley (left)
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/29/abell-winners-2015/
Fresh idea: Use surplus food from wholesalers to help address Baltimore's 'food deserts' | Hub
Katie Pearce
Fresh idea: Use surplus food from wholesalers to help address Baltimore's 'food deserts' Johns Hopkins doctoral students win Abell Foundation's Award in Urban Policy for vendors market proposal Image caption: Haymarket, Boston's centuries-old open air market, offers fresh produce at discounted prices. Credit: Sheila Spiker By Katie Pearce / Published July 29, 2015 When he lived in Boston a few years ago, Corbin Cunningham made a habit of frequenting Haymarket, the historic open-air market where he could consistently find cheap, ripe produce—like a huge box of tomatoes for $5. Image caption: Corbin Cunningham and Marie Spiker Vendors at the popular weekend market are able to sell surplus fruits and vegetables directly from the region's wholesale distributor, offering prices up to 90 percent lower than normal retail. When Cunningham and his wife, Marie Spiker, moved to Baltimore to pursue doctorates at Johns Hopkins University, "we were wishing we had something like
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/10/baltimore-food-deserts/
Report: One in four Baltimore residents lives in a food desert | Hub
Natalie Wood-Wright and Barbara Benham
Report: One in four Baltimore residents lives in a food desert Food maps depict city neighborhoods including areas with limited access to healthy foods By Natalie Wood-Wright and Barbara Benham / Published June 10, 2015 A new report by researchers at the Johns Hopkins Center for a Livable Future (CLF), in collaboration with the Baltimore Food Policy Initiative, found that one in four of the city's residents live in so-called food deserts with limited access to healthy foods. The report, released today, is available online on the Center for a Livable Future's Maryland Food System Map website. The findings were highlighted at a press conference featuring Baltimore City Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, other city officials and CLF representatives. Neighborhoods with food deserts have higher rates of diseases linked to unhealthy diets, including cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Overall mortality rates are also higher in these areas. While not the only factor impacting
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/08/vali-nasr-npr-mecca-pilgrim-saudi-arabia-iran/
As annual pilgrimage to Mecca begins, political tensions run high | Hub
Hub staff report
As annual pilgrimage to Mecca begins, political tensions run high SAIS Dean Vali Nasr discusses ongoing conflict between Saudi Arabia, Iran By Hub staff report / Published Sept 8, 2016 Friday marks the beginning of the Hajj, an annual pilgrimage to the holy city of Mecca, located in Saudi Arabia, by Muslims from around the world. This year, Iranian citizens will not be allowed to participate. Image caption: Vali Nasr Vali Nasr, dean of the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, D.C., told NPR for a segment on Wednesday's "Morning Edition" that Saudi Arabia and Iran have been locked in "a major tension," a geopolitical "tit for tat" over competing interests in Yemen and Syria. This conflict has escalated since last year's Hajj, when a stampede in a crowded street killed as many as 2,600 pilgrims—many of them Iranian. In the aftermath of the tragedy, Nasr
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/12/who-founded-isis-trump-obama-experts-nasr/
Who founded ISIS? It's complicated, experts say, but it surely wasn't Obama | Hub
Hub staff report
Election 2016 Who founded ISIS? It's complicated, experts say, but it surely wasn't Obama SAIS Dean Vali Nasr links rise of Islamic terror group to sectarian conflict in Iraq By Hub staff report / Published Aug 12, 2016 Vali Nasr, an expert on Middle East affairs and dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, is among the many experts rejecting Donald Trump's recent campaign trail rhetoric about President Barack Obama being the "founder of ISIS." Image caption: GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump said on several occasions this week that President Obama founded ISIS. Image credit: Gage Skidmore Trump, the Republican candidate for president, eagerly repeated the claim on several occasions this week in a renewed effort to connect the Middle East policies of Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton—Trump's Democractic opponent—to the rise of terrorism there, and particularly to the emergence of the Islamic State.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/07/29/former-cia-director-on-isis-threat/
ISIS threat 'perhaps 25 percent' neutralized, former acting CIA director says | Hub
Hub staff report
Commentary ISIS threat 'perhaps 25 percent' neutralized, former acting CIA director says John McLaughlin, distinguished practitioner in residence at SAIS, cautions that end of terror group's reign is not near By Hub staff report / Published July 29, 2016 "[W]e are perhaps 25 percent of the way toward neutralizing the worst threats ISIS poses," John McLaughlin, former acting director of the CIA, writes in a recent commentary for The Cipher Brief, a global security news website. But, he cautions, "the remaining 75 percent will be harder." Image caption: John McLaughlin McLaughlin, a distinguished practitioner in residence at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, D.C., notes that the anti-ISIS coalition—led by the United States and made up of allies including Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey, Egypt, the United Kingdom, France, and Germany, among others—has meaningfully diminished the terror group's influence and territory in Iraq
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/16/21st-century-neighborhoods-conference/
Cities working for change: Johns Hopkins event brings together leaders from across the country | Hub
Katie Pearce
Cities working for change: Johns Hopkins event brings together leaders from across the country Inaugural 21st Century Neighborhoods symposium draws mayors, federal officials to Baltimore Image caption: Ron Daniels addresses the 21st Century Neighborhoods symposium Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Sept 16, 2016 The mayor of Atlanta, Kasim Reed, said he's been straight with longtime residents around Turner Field, an area of the city poised for major redevelopment efforts. Reed and his staff members, he said, go around bluntly telling these residents: "Do not move. And if someone comes to buy your house, give the city a call." The mayor was among the panelists yesterday at Johns Hopkins University's inaugural 21st Century Neighborhoods symposium, discussing some of the trickier dimensions of urban revitalization. Like how to make sure, when a distressed neighborhood finally prospers, that original homeowners see the benefits rather than moving
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/16/central-baltimore-explore-the-core/
For Johns Hopkins, a 'core' commitment to Central Baltimore | Hub
Julie Scharper
For Johns Hopkins, a 'core' commitment to Central Baltimore University lends support to effort to bring attention to the vibrant, diverse heart of Baltimore Credit: ED WEISS / CENTRAL BALTIMORE PARTNERSHIP By Julie Scharper / Published Sept 16, 2016 A speakeasy tucked away on a side street. Art galleries and artist studios. A shop selling handmade haircare products. Murals and art installations. A bustling farmer's market. A butcher's shop. And many dozens of restaurants, bars, and music venues. The center of Baltimore is studded with fascinating places to explore, but the area is often overshadowed by the neighborhoods downtown and along the waterfront. Now, a new marketing campaign aims to draw attention to the city's vibrant and culturally diverse heart. The campaign, called "Explore the Core," kicks off Saturday with a traveling party bus that will bring music, entertainment, and prizes to the Waverly Farmer's Market and several other neighborhoods.
http://hub.jhu.edu/2012/12/06/homewood-community-announcement/
 Johns Hopkins to give $10M to Homewood-area projects | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Johns Hopkins to give $10M to Homewood-area projects Goal is to help enhance, strengthen neighborhoods near campus Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels and Andrew B. Frank, senior advisor to the president on economic development, announce the university's $10 million commitment to neighborhoods near the Homewood campus. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Dennis O'Shea / Published Dec 6, 2012 The Johns Hopkins University will contribute $10 million over five years to enhance and strengthen neighborhoods surrounding the university's Homewood campus in northern Baltimore City, President Ronald J. Daniels announced today. The money will fund projects chosen in conjunction with the neighborhoods themselves and with other members of the Homewood Community Partners Initiative, a collaborative effort convened by Johns Hopkins last year. The university also hopes to attract more funding from other institutions, foundations, and businesses interested in the area surrounding Homewood, roughly from University Parkway south to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/11/barclay-engineering-elementary-middle-school/
Johns Hopkins helps launch computer, engineering lab in Baltimore elementary/middle school | Hub
Jill Rosen
Johns Hopkins helps launch computer, engineering lab in Baltimore elementary/middle school Barclay school, located blocks from the university's Homewood campus, adapts modified curriculum, opens new lab space Video: Dave Schmelick By Jill Rosen / Published Nov 11, 2015 The Johns Hopkins University and Baltimore City Public Schools have partnered to create the city's first pre-K through eighth grade school dedicated to giving students a foundation in engineering and computer skills. Image caption: Barclay Elementary/Middle School principal Armanda Carr greets Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels at Wednesday's event. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Every class at the Barclay Elementary/Middle School—not just science and math but also reading, social studies, and even art—will feature elements of engineering and computer science, using a curriculum supported by educators at the Johns Hopkins Whiting School of Engineering. And every student has access to a new laboratory, co-founded by city schools
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/02/07/engineering-design-outreach/
Project pairs Hopkins Engineering students with city middle schoolers | Hub
Hub staff report
Project pairs Hopkins Engineering students with city middle schoolers Sixth-graders build game using cardboard, brass fasteners, fishing wire Image caption: Sophomores Cameron Davis (left) and Laura Scavio (center) participate in the Engineering Design Outreach Intersession course last month at Barclay Elementary/Middle School. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Feb 7, 2014 A dozen Whiting School of Engineering students enrolled in the Engineering Design Outreach Intersession course last month, working with teams of students in a 6th grade science class at the Barclay Elementary/Middle School in Baltimore's Charles Village neighborhood. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University The course was led by Margaret Hart from the School of Engineering's Center for Educational Outreach. The assignment: Design, document, and build a prototype for a new game that must include a mechanical arm built by the students out of cardboard, brass fasteners, and fishing wire.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/26/presidents-day-of-service-2016-fall/
More than 1,000 volunteers take part in JHU's annual President's Day of Service | Hub
Taylor Jade Powell
More than 1,000 volunteers take part in JHU's annual President's Day of Service Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Taylor Jade Powell / Published Sept 26, 2016 Clad in baby blue and armed with aprons, shovels, and gardening gloves, approximately 1,100 Blue Jays dispersed across Baltimore on Saturday to give back to the community during the annual Johns Hopkins President's Day of Service. Students, staff, and faculty joined ranks to help serve nearly 40 local organizations, including Boone Street Farm, Friends of Wyman Park, and Liberty Elementary School. Volunteers checked-in with their team leaders and received a free T-shirt, lunch, and water. JHU President Ronald J. Daniels thanked those gathered in Goldfarb Gymnasium for their participation and noted that service can play an integral role in everyone's stories. He told the volunteers about HopServe50, which challenges students to commit to completing 50 hours of community service between now
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/06/ernie-bates-direct-matriculation/
Going places: Combined degree programs let students pursue their passion | Hub
Taylor Jade Powell
Direct matriculation Going places: Combined degree programs let students pursue their passion New Johns Hopkins programs in international studies, global health give select students an opportunity to combine undergraduate, graduate studies Image caption: First-year Johns Hopkins student Ernie Bates is enrolled in a program that combines bachelor's and master's degree studies in international studies. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Taylor Jade Powell / Published Oct 6, 2016 Ernie Bates landed in Tocumen International Airport in Panama. The sunny, summer weather was much stickier and humid than back home in San Francisco. But the absence of his friends and family—whom he would not see for six weeks—was the most nerve-racking. Bates' high school Spanish teacher had recommended he participate in the "Amigos de las Americas" immersion-service program in order to improve his Spanish language skills. It was during this trip—while in a rural Azuero Penisula community of approximately
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/13/speed-of-sound-thomas-dolby-memoir/
Music pioneer Thomas Dolby discusses his new memoir and how technology revolutionized the music industry | Hub
Bret McCabe
Q+A Music pioneer Thomas Dolby discusses his new memoir and how technology revolutionized the music industry Johns Hopkins professor recently released memoir titled 'The Speed of Sound: Breaking the Barriers Between Music and Technology' By Bret McCabe / Published Oct 13, 2016 David Bowie, George Clinton, Michael Jackson, producer Jeff "Mutt" Lange, Joni Mitchell—Thomas Dolby recounts sharing the stage and spending time in the studio with a number of pop music's geniuses in his new memoir, The Speed of Sound: Breaking the Barriers Between Music and Technology (Flatiron Books). Image caption: Thomas Dolby The Johns Hopkins Professor of the Arts charts his musical journey—from being an aspiring musician in late 1970s London, awash in punk's insurgent energy and an underground of forward-looking musical experimenters; to his breakout 1982 album, The Golden Age of Wireless; and on through the turbulent 1980s music industry, a decade bracketed by the 1981 birth of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/21/deray-mckesson-mse-symposium-police-activism/
DeRay Mckesson on police brutality, the power of social media, and the changing face of activism | Hub
Hub staff report
DeRay Mckesson on police brutality, the power of social media, and the changing face of activism Black Lives Matter activist visits Johns Hopkins for MSE Symposium Image caption: Activist DeRay Mckesson spoke Thursday night at Johns Hopkins University as part of the MSE Symposium. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Oct 21, 2016 Teacher and Black Lives Matter activist DeRay Mckesson spoke Thursday night in Shriver Hall on the Johns Hopkins University Homewood campus about the militarization of police and the changing face of activism in the age of technology. "People of color are always facing issues of erasure, and erasure operates in two ways—one, the story is never told, or it's told by everyone but us. And in this moment, we became the unerased." DeRay Mckesson, activist Speaking as part of the student-run Milton S. Eisenhower Symposium, Mckesson said that in 2014,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/19/selma-director-ava-duvernay-mse-symposium/
The road to 'Selma': Director Ava DuVernay talks race, Hollywood, and doing it her way | Hub
Rachel Chism
The road to 'Selma': Director Ava DuVernay talks race, Hollywood, and doing it her way Ava DuVernay visits Johns Hopkins as part of the MSE Symposium Image caption: Ava DuVernay joins JHU alum D. Watkins for the Milton S. Eisenhower Symposium event at Shriver Hall Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Rachel Chism / Published Nov 19, 2015 When award-winning director Ava DuVernay made a film that Hollywood studios didn't want, she launched her own distribution company. After making three indie dramas, she cultivated a small but devoted fan club and a Best Director award at the Sundance Film Festival, the first black woman to receive the honor. Then came Selma, the 2014 historical drama that chronicles the 1965 voting rights marches, led by Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama. The film earned an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture, the first film by
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/29/jhu-forums-on-race-panel-discussion/
Johns Hopkins panelists focus on social justice movements, then and now | Hub
Taylor Jade Powell
Race in America Johns Hopkins panelists focus on social justice movements, then and now Activists, scholars take part in sixth event in JHU Forums on Race in America series Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Taylor Jade Powell / Published Sept 29, 2016 Critical citizenship, Black Lives Matter, and the history of anti-racist activism and politics were among the topics of conversation on Tuesday evening during a JHU Forums on Race in America panel discussion, which took place in Shriver Hall on the university's Homewood campus. The event was the sixth installment of the series, which began in April 2014 as an effort to raise awareness on racism, diversity, and social justice in Baltimore and beyond. The panel featured writer and historian Robin D.G. Kelley, professor of U.S. history at University of California, Los Angeles; Salamishah Tillet , activist and associate professor of English and Africana studies at
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/25/epigenetics-lead-exposure-diet-disease/
Scientists seek better understanding of how genetic, environmental factors join forces to cause disease | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Epigenetics Scientists seek better understanding of how genetic, environmental factors join forces to cause disease NIH-funded study co-led by JHU's Andrew Feinberg will explore effects of lead exposure By Phil Sneiderman / Published Oct 25, 2016 When researchers try to uncover the cause of disease, they commonly start with two questions: Did a quirk in the patient's genes open the door to illness? Did exposure to environmental factors play havoc with the patient's health? Image caption: Andrew Feinberg Very often, both troublemakers are at least partly to blame. To provide the most effective treatment, doctors need to know as much as possible about how these partners in sickness and poor health work together. Scientists from Johns Hopkins University and Texas A&M University have launched an ambitious new effort to gather such knowledge, with support from a $5.3 million National Institutes of Health grant. The team's goal is to learn at
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/25/us-news-world-report-global-rankings-2016/
Johns Hopkins No. 11 in 'U.S. News' Best Global Universities Rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins No. 11 in 'U.S. News' Best Global Universities Rankings JHU also included among world's top 10 in six subject areas Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Oct 25, 2016 Johns Hopkins University ranks 11th—up one spot from No. 12 a year ago—on the 2017 U.S. News & World Report list of the Best Global Universities Rankings, which were released today. Among U.S. schools, JHU ranks ninth, tied with the University of Washington in Seattle. The Best Global Universities rankings, now in their third year, evaluate the top 1,000 research universities from 65 countries. They focus specifically on schools' academic research and overall reputation rather than their separate undergraduate or graduate programs, which are evaluated in the publication's Best Colleges and Best Graduate Programs, respectively. The rankings are based on 12 indicators , including an institution's global and regional reputation, publications and
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/13/us-news-best-college-rankings-hopkins-2016/
 Johns Hopkins again among top 10 in annual 'U.S. News' best college rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins again among top 10 in annual 'U.S. News' best college rankings JHU also ranks among best values, top picks in survey of high school guidance counselors Credit: Noah Scialom By Hub staff report / Published Sept 13, 2016 Johns Hopkins University remained 10th among national universities in the annual U.S. News & World Report rankings of the nation's best colleges and universities, which were released Tuesday. The university also tied for fifth in a U.S. News survey of high school guidance counselors, remained among the top 20 universities considered by the publication to be the best values for students, and retained its place among U.S. News' top 15 undergraduate engineering programs at a doctoral institution. JHU's repeat top 10 recognition by U.S. News follows its inclusion among the top 20 in several prominent global university rankings that focus on research and overall academic excellence. This year, Johns Hopkins
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/22/times-higher-education-rankings-2016-17/
 Johns Hopkins 17th in annual 'Times Higher Education' rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins 17th in annual 'Times Higher Education' rankings Image caption: The Gilman atrium on JHU's Homewood campus. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Sept 22, 2016 Johns Hopkins University is ranked 17th in the world out of 980 schools in the 2017 London Times Higher Education World Universities Rankings, which were released yesterday. JHU, which was 11th overall in last year's THE rankings, is 12th among U.S. universities in this year's rankings. The University of Oxford was ranked No. 1, with Caltech, Stanford, Cambridge, and MIT rounding out the top five. The annual Times Higher Education list, published since 2004, is among the world's most influential rankings of colleges and universities. Of more than 17,000 international students who responded to the Hobsons 2015 International Student Survey, a third said they consulted THE's World University Rankings during the college application process. JHU has
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/02/times-higher-education-funding-innovation/
Johns Hopkins ranks among world's leaders in industry funded research | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins ranks among world's leaders in industry funded research By Hub staff report / Published March 2, 2016 Johns Hopkins University ranks among the world's top universities when it comes to securing funding for research from private businesses, according to new rankings released today by Times Higher Education. JHU is listed fourth in the London-based publication's first-ever Funding for Innovation ranking, which assesses universities worldwide based on the amount of private sector investment received to support research and innovation. Hopkins receives just less than $250,000 per academic staff member, THE reported. Johns Hopkins is one of two U.S. universities among the top 20—Duke ranks second. Germany's LMU Munich tops the list, the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology is third, and Turkey's Anadolu University rounds out the top five. In THE's annual World University Rankings, released in September, JHU ranks 11th. Johns Hopkins has also led U.S. higher
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/09/research-funding-leader-nsf-survey
 Johns Hopkins leads U.S. in research spending for 36th year in a row | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Johns Hopkins leads U.S. in research spending for 36th year in a row $2.24B spent on medical, science, engineering research in FY2014 By Dennis O'Shea / Published Dec 9, 2015 Johns Hopkins University led U.S. higher education in research and development for the 36th straight year, spending a record $2.242 billion in fiscal 2014 to expand scientific knowledge, find cures for disease, promote health, and advance technology. That total R&D expenditure in 2014, the most recent fiscal year for which nationwide data is available, was 3.4 percent larger than Johns Hopkins' research spending in 2013, according to the annual National Science Foundation report on institutional R&D. The University of Michigan again ranked second in total R&D with $1.349 billion spent in fiscal 2014. Rounding out the top five were the University of Washington, Seattle, at $1.176 billion, the University of Wisconsin, Madison, at $1.109 billion and the University of California,
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/research-funding/articles/
 Research funding | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Research funding DELTA Teaching Forum to be held May 2 Published March 4, 2024 Hybrid event will include a discussion of the forces transforming higher education, performances by Peabody faculty and students, and a closing keynote about how universities can collaborate with surrounding communities Hopkins leads nation in research spending for 44th consecutive year Published Jan 5, 2024 In FY22, JHU spent a record $3.4 billion—$1.6 billion more than the next highest institution on the annual list compiled by the National Science Foundation Technology Five DELTA Awards recipients announced Published July 17, 2023 The winning proposals will receive up to $75,000 each to help innovate learning through technology Nexus Awards 40 D.C.-based endeavors receive funding support Published May 22, 2023 Awardees will develop projects and programs anchored at JHU's new home in the nation's capital at 555 Pennsylvania Ave. Research funding 37 faculty members receive Johns Hopkins Catalyst
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/22/times-higher-education-rankings-2016-17/
Johns Hopkins 17th in annual 'Times Higher Education' rankings | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins 17th in annual 'Times Higher Education' rankings Image caption: The Gilman atrium on JHU's Homewood campus. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Sept 22, 2016 Johns Hopkins University is ranked 17th in the world out of 980 schools in the 2017 London Times Higher Education World Universities Rankings, which were released yesterday. JHU, which was 11th overall in last year's THE rankings, is 12th among U.S. universities in this year's rankings. The University of Oxford was ranked No. 1, with Caltech, Stanford, Cambridge, and MIT rounding out the top five. The annual Times Higher Education list, published since 2004, is among the world's most influential rankings of colleges and universities. Of more than 17,000 international students who responded to the Hobsons 2015 International Student Survey, a third said they consulted THE's World University Rankings during the college application process. JHU has
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/07/womens-soccer-hopkins-macdaniel/
Women's soccer: Coulson comes up big to lift Hopkins to conference title | Hub
Hub staff report
Women's soccer Women's soccer: Coulson comes up big to lift Hopkins to conference title Freshman scores two second-half goals, Blue Jays hold off top-seeded McDaniel, 3-1 By Hub staff report / Published Nov 7, 2016 Freshman Maggie Coulson scored two second-half goals and senior Meg Van de Loo added another as the Johns Hopkins women's soccer team defeated top-seeded McDaniel 3-1 on Sunday in the Centennial Conference tournament championship game. After a scoreless first half, the No. 19 Blue Jays (15-2-2) took the lead in the 49th minute on Coulson's first goal, followed less than four minutes later by Van de Loo's score. Coulson made it 3-0 in the 61st minute, and Hopkins held off the No. 13 Green Terror (16-2-1). The win gave JHU is second consecutive conference title and 11th overall. Coulson, who had three goals on the season entering the final, was named the tournament's MVP. Johns
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/14/dance-marathon-raises-thousands-for-childrens-center/
Dance Marathon raises more than $44,000 for Johns Hopkins Children's Center | Hub
Hub staff report
Dance Marathon raises more than $44,000 for Johns Hopkins Children's Center By Hub staff report / Published Nov 14, 2016 Johns Hopkins students dressed as superheroes and danced all night Saturday to raise money to help sick and injured children. The annual JHU Dance Marathon, part of the Miracle Network Dance Marathon program, raised $44,756.07 to benefit the Johns Hopkins Children's Center, which for more than a century has been providing compassionate and comprehensive care for children and their families. Dance Marathon had 103 student dancers registered, with performances by different campus dance troupes and vocal groups. Face painters and a photo booth were available, and Dunkin' Donuts was on site to fuel the dancers until midnight. Posted in Student Life Tagged johns hopkins children's center, dance marathon Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/14/hopkins-cnu-ncaa-womens-soccer/
Women's soccer: Van de Loo powers Johns Hopkins to NCAA tournament third round | Hub
Hub staff report
Women's soccer: Van de Loo powers Johns Hopkins to NCAA tournament third round Senior scores twice in second-round win, giving her school-record 25 goals this season By Hub staff report / Published Nov 14, 2016 Senior Meg Van de Loo broke the school's single-season record for goals as the Johns Hopkins women's soccer team defeated Christopher Newport, 4-0, on Sunday evening in the second round of the NCAA Division III tournament. Image caption: Johns Hopkins senior Meg Van de Loo (25) scored five times in two games over the weekend, giving her a school-record 25 goals this season. With the win, Hopkins (17-2-2) advanced to the third run for the eighth time in program history, where it will face Williams (17-0-2) on Saturday with a spot in the NCAA quarterfinals at stake. The two teams met in the NCAA tournament in 2013 and 2014; Williams defeated JHU 1-0 in the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/29/brain-damage-repair-nfl-players/
Signs of brain injuries in young NFL players adds to evidence linking concussions, CTE | Hub
Vanessa McMains
Sports science Signs of brain injuries in young NFL players adds to evidence linking concussions, CTE Johns Hopkins researchers find evidence of trauma, repair in brain images By Vanessa McMains / Published Nov 29, 2016 In a small study of young or recently retired NFL players, researchers at Johns Hopkins report finding evidence of brain injury and repair visible on brain imaging from the players. The study used positron emission tomography, or PET, and MRI to image the players' brains and compared them a control group of men without a history of concussion. In a report published in JAMA Neurology, the researchers highlighted the value of PET imaging to monitor a marker of injury and repair in the brains of NFL players and athletes in other contact sports. Image caption: Former NFL players demonstrate higher binding of TSPO across many brain regions compared with the brains of control individuals matched
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/26/nfl-players-concussion-research/
 Johns Hopkins study of retired NFL players sheds light on concussion-related brain damage  | Hub
Marin Hedin
Johns Hopkins study of retired NFL players sheds light on concussion-related brain damage Research provides further evidence of potential long-term neurological risks to football players who sustain repeated head injuries By Marin Hedin / Published Jan 26, 2015 A team of Johns Hopkins specialists has gathered evidence of accumulated brain damage in former NFL players that could be linked to specific memory deficits experienced decades after the men stopped playing the game. Image caption: The brain of a 66-year-old former NFL player shows increased binding of the translocator protein across many brain regions compared to binding seen in healthy controls. Image credit: Johns Hopkins Medicine The small study, which involved imaging and cognitive tests of nine former NFL players, provides further evidence of the potential long-term neurological risks to football players who sustain repeated concussions. It also strengthens the argument of those calling for better player protections. Results of the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/29/public-housing-boosts-lowers-child-test-scores/
Study looks at how living in assisted housing affects the well-being of children | Hub
Jill Rosen
Public policy Study looks at how living in assisted housing affects the well-being of children Subsidized housing appears to boost high-performing kids but have the opposite effect on those with low test scores, behavioral issues By Jill Rosen / Published Nov 29, 2016 Living in subsidized housing seems to give a boost to children with high standardized test scores and few behavior problems, but it has the opposite effect on students who score poorly and have behavioral issues, a new study finds. Previous studies have concluded that living in homes with rent assistance from the federal government—including public housing, units built as "affordable," and private market homes rented with vouchers—has no effect on children. But Johns Hopkins University researchers found that subsidized housing can significantly influence a young person's standardized test scores and behavior, particularly very high- and very low-performing children. The findings, which shed new light on how housing
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/15/for-profit-schools-disadvantaged-youth/
For-profit trade schools prove costly for disadvantaged black youth | Hub
Jill Rosen
For-profit trade schools prove costly for disadvantaged black youth Study examines outcomes for 150 black youth from some of Baltimore's poorest neighborhoods By Jill Rosen / Published Sept 15, 2016 Young African-Americans from some of the country's most disadvantaged neighborhoods are drawn to for-profit post-secondary trade schools, believing they are the quickest route to jobs. But a new study co-authored by a Johns Hopkins University sociologist finds the very thing that makes for-profit schools seem so appealing—a streamlined curriculum—is the reason so many poor students drop out. In a study of 150 black youth from some of Baltimore's lowest-income neighborhoods, researchers found that young people who attended for-profit institutions ended up in more debt and with fewer job prospects than they might have had they attempted two- or four-year nonprofit schools. The findings are available online in the journal Sociology of Education and shed new light on what attracts students
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/21/baltimore-mobility-program/
Leaving poor neighborhoods can change a family's perspective, study suggests | Hub
Jill Rosen
Leaving poor neighborhoods can change a family's perspective, study suggests Program pairs housing vouchers with support to help Baltimore residents feel more comfortable relocating to new homes outside the city Credit: The Century Foundation By Jill Rosen / Published March 21, 2014 Despite evidence that people don't leave impoverished, segregated areas even when offered large housing subsidies, a well-structured voucher program can help inner city residents feel comfortable enough in a more affluent area to want to stay, researchers found. Image caption: Stefanie DeLuca In a report published this month in the Journal of Public Policy Analysis and Management, Johns Hopkins sociologist Stefanie DeLuca said the Baltimore Mobility Program succeeded while so many others failed because it gave families not only the financial support to move, but the chance to experience life in a safe, quiet, diverse place with good schools and quality homes. What typically happens with housing vouchers,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/01/10/residential-mobility-study/
Low-income housing dilemma: space or safety? | Hub
Amy Lunday
Low-income housing dilemma: space or safety? Sociologists find low-income families must make difficult tradeoffs between dwelling size, neighborhood safety when choosing housing By Amy Lunday / Published Jan 10, 2013 For the working poor, making housing decisions based on the old real estate adage "location, location, location" is complicated: Should a family choose cramped quarters in a safer but more expensive neighborhood, or would it be better to have a bigger apartment where rent is low but crime rates are high? When faced with difficulties finding affordable housing to accommodate their families, 124 mothers and grandmothers in Baltimore participating in a housing study often opted for a bigger apartment in a less desirable location because extra bedrooms would mean higher rental rates in safer neighborhoods in the city or surrounding counties, according to sociologists at The Johns Hopkins University and Loyola University Chicago. The women, most of whom were heads
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/30/scientists-sign-open-letter-trump/
Two Johns Hopkins Nobel laureates among more than 2,300 scientists to sign open letter to Trump administration | Hub
Hub staff report
Two Johns Hopkins Nobel laureates among more than 2,300 scientists to sign open letter to Trump administration Peter Agre, Carol Greider among signatories who urge President-elect, Congress to 'adhere to high standards of scientific integrity and independence' By Hub staff report / Published Nov 30, 2016 Two Nobel Prize winners from Johns Hopkins University are among a group of more than 2,300 scientists who signed an open letter urging the Trump administration and Congress to honor scientific integrity. Image caption: Peter Agre (left) and Carol Greider The letter—which includes the signatures of 22 Nobel laureates, including JHU immunologist Peter Agre and molecular biologist Carol Greider—asserts that "policy makers and the public alike require access to high-quality scientific information to serve the public interest." The letter advises the president-elect to appoint agency officials with "demonstrated track records of respecting science as a critical component of decision making" and who "safeguard the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/01/latinos-in-america-post-election/
Panelists explore Latino identity, challenges in post-election America | Hub
Katie Pearce
Race in America Panelists explore Latino identity, challenges in post-election America Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Dec 1, 2016 How are Latinos in America feeling after the election? A panel of professionals who serve Latino populations convened last night at Johns Hopkins University to probe that question, along with the broader questions of the ambiguous yet united Latino identity. "The Latino identity is an American-imposed ideal. When you leave the U.S., there's no such thing as 'Latino' or 'Hispanic.'" Ileana Gonzalez, JHU School of Education The panelists—four from Johns Hopkins, along with journalist Ray Suarez and marketing CEO Javier von Westphalen,—unilaterally expressed concern over Donald Trump's win. "Will 'stunned' be enough of an answer?" Suarez said of his immediate reaction to the Nov. 8 results. "I was as surprised as Donald Trump." The country, he predicted, is "going to spend the next 20-plus
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/17/hopkins-student-walkout-immigrant-students/
Johns Hopkins students voice support for undocumented immigrant students | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins students voice support for undocumented immigrant students Students petition university to designate campuses as sanctuaries for those who could face deportation By Hub staff report / Published Nov 17, 2016 About 75 Johns Hopkins University students joined a nationwide walkout from classes Wednesday afternoon in support of vulnerable students and in protest of the proposed immigration policies of President-elect Donald Trump. "No more hate. No more fear. Immigrants are welcome here!" the group chanted as they congregated in front of the university's Milton S. Eisenhower Library. The students said they want the university to designate its campuses as "sanctuaries" for students who aren't in the U.S. legally and could face deportation. "Hopkins needs to be a safe spot for everyone on this campus," said Ben Peak, a doctoral student studying French who addressed the group Wednesday. "We're here to protect our students, no matter what their race, no
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/06/john-caron-named-associate-dean-aap/
John Caron named associate dean of JHU's Advanced Academic Programs | Hub
Hub staff report
John Caron named associate dean of JHU's Advanced Academic Programs By Hub staff report / Published Dec 6, 2016 John Caron has been named associate dean of the Krieger School of Arts and Sciences Advanced Academic Programs, effective Jan. 1, 2017. Image caption: John Caron Caron comes to Johns Hopkins from Northeastern University in Boston, where for the past six years he has been the senior associate dean of academic and faculty affairs for the College of Professional Studies. He earned his doctorate of education from the University of Pennsylvania. His research interests include strategic management in higher education and international education. "I am excited to join the AAP at this thrilling moment in time," Caron said. "Mission and quality are important to me. At the same time, working closely with faculty to develop innovative programs that leverage Johns Hopkins' commitment to excellence excites me. What impressed me most are
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/08/environmental-policy-under-president-trump/
As Trump signals climate policy shift, scientists ponder impacts on environmental, public health  | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
As Trump signals climate policy shift, scientists ponder impacts on environmental, public health Johns Hopkins experts discuss what president-elect's global warming skepticism, pledge to revive coal mean for the environmental movement and the health of the planet Credit: blinow61 By Saralyn Lyons / Published Dec 8, 2016 Since President-elect Donald Trump's surprise election victory, the businessman's environmental platform and policy promises have drawn sharp criticism from scientists and public health experts. Many fear that a Trump administration, with its skeptical stance on climate change and ambiguous conservation platform, could stall or undo progress made in recent years to stabilize the climate. Their concerns weren't eased Wednesday with Trump's nomination of Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt—who has written that the climate change debate is "far from settled"—to lead the Environmental Protection Agency. "If you want primary prevention, what do you do? You eliminate the source that's causing the adverse heath effects.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/22/paris-agreement-climate-change-panel/
Experts gather at Johns Hopkins to discuss new age for climate policy | Hub
Katie Pearce
Experts gather at Johns Hopkins to discuss new age for climate policy State Department special envoy Todd Stern, who represented U.S. at Paris talks last month, leads panel discussion By Katie Pearce / Published Jan 22, 2016 A year ago, only a true idealist could have imagined that more than 180 countries could reach a watertight agreement to address global warming, Todd D. Stern, the U.S. State Department's special envoy for climate change, said Thursday during a talk at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Image caption: Todd Stern, special envoy for climate change at the U.S. State Department, speaks at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. But that's exactly what happened last month in Paris at the United Nations Climate Change Conference. The landmark agreement negotiated there, which demanded accountability and benchmarks of progress in a quest to limit global warming to below 2 degrees
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/10/meatless-mondays-paris/
In Paris, Johns Hopkins team touts Meatless Monday as important part of climate conversation | Hub
Katie Pearce
In Paris, Johns Hopkins team touts Meatless Monday as important part of climate conversation Experts from JHU's Center for a Livable Future examine agriculture's impact on global warming By Katie Pearce / Published Dec 10, 2015 What does sporadic vegetarianism have to do with global warming? Researchers from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health traveled to Paris this week to elucidate the link between the two. Image caption: Roni Neff of JHU's Center for a Livable Future gives a presentation at the U.N. climate change conference in Paris. The Meatless Monday campaign, which began at Johns Hopkins in 2003, took a stage at yesterday at the United Nations' climate change conference in Paris, where world leaders at COP21 have been negotiating round the clock on a comprehensive plan to abate global warming. Yesterday's Meatless Monday panel in Paris addressed what some experts have called a glaring void in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/23/wasted-seafood-supply/
Nearly half of U.S. seafood supply goes to waste, Johns Hopkins researchers say | Hub
Katherine McCleary
Nearly half of U.S. seafood supply goes to waste, Johns Hopkins researchers say Roughly 2.3 billion pounds of seafood squandered each year in distribution and retail, commercial fishing bycatch, and at consumer level By Katherine McCleary / Published Sept 23, 2015 As much as 47 percent of the edible U.S. seafood supply is lost each year, mainly from consumer waste, new research from the Johns Hopkins Center for a Livable Future suggests. The findings, published in the November issue of Global Environmental Change, come as food waste in general has been in the spotlight and concerns have been raised about the sustainability of the world's seafood resources. In the United States and around the world, people are being advised to eat more seafood, but overfishing, climate change, pollution, habitat destruction, and the use of fish for other purposes besides human consumption threaten the global seafood supply. "If we're told to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/19/hopkins-act-on-climate-pledge/
Johns Hopkins to join other universities in signing Act on Climate pledge | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins to join other universities in signing Act on Climate pledge Action builds on existing commitment to reduce JHU's carbon footprint By Hub staff report / Published Nov 19, 2015 Johns Hopkins University will join colleges and universities across the nation today in signing the Act on Climate Pledge, building on an existing commitment to reduce the university's carbon footprint. Specific items in the pledge commit Hopkins to increase energy efficiency; conserve resources; and continue to foster groundbreaking research in the fields of climate change, public health, energy and sustainability. An official announcement by the White House Council on Environmental Quality was planned for 3 p.m. today. The pledge reads, in part: As institutions of higher education, we applaud the progress already made to promote clean energy and climate action. We recognize the urgent need to act now to avoid irreversible costs to our global community's economic prosperity and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/24/naomi-klein-foreign-affairs-symposium/
Environmentalist Naomi Klein calls Paris climate accord 'woefully inadequate' | Hub
Rachel Chism
Champion for climate change Environmentalist Naomi Klein calls Paris climate accord 'woefully inadequate' Activist, author visits Hopkins as part of Foreign Affairs Symposium Image caption: Environmentalist Naomi Klein speaks to an audience at Johns Hopkins University as part of the student-run Foreign Affairs Symposium. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Rachel Chism / Published Feb 24, 2016 "I am here to talk about the crisis of climate change, and some of you may be thinking, 'That's silly—our political leaders solved that in Paris in December'," environmentalist Naomi Klein said to an audience at Johns Hopkins University's Shriver Hall on Tuesday evening. A display behind her projected an image of world leaders celebrating the historic accord, a framework for reducing planet-warming greenhouses gases. The next slide displayed news headlines declaring "the end of the fossil fuel era." Klein—an activist, columnist, and author who visited campus as part of the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/08/wendell-berry-eric-schlosser-conversation/
Author, farmer, activist Wendell Berry keep fighting 'to protect everything worth protecting' | Hub
Katie Pearce
Author, farmer, activist Wendell Berry keep fighting 'to protect everything worth protecting' Conservationist visits Johns Hopkins as part of Center for a Livable Future's 20th anniversary celebration Image caption: Wendell Berry (right) speaks with Eric Schlosser at an event hosted by Johns Hopkins University's Center for a Livable Future. Credit: Mike Milli By Katie Pearce / Published Dec 8, 2016 Writer, farmer, and environmental advocate Wendell Berry says he's "had an easy time of it as a civil disobeyer," evading arrest for the most part throughout his lifetime of activism. One of the last times he participated in a protest—against mountaintop removal in his home state of Kentucky a few years ago—the governor invited him and fellow activists for a weekend sit-in at the capitol building, where his group made little headway, despite the event's publicity. "The score between conservationists and the coal industry is 100 to nothing … we
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/12/daniels-peterson-marylander-of-the-year-blocal/
BLocal effort garners 'Marylander of the Year nominations' for Daniels, Peterson | Hub
Hub staff report
BLocal effort garners 'Marylander of the Year nominations' for Daniels, Peterson By Hub staff report / Published Dec 12, 2016 For the second year in a row, Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels and Ronald Peterson, president of the Johns Hopkins Health System, have been named finalists for The Baltimore Sun's Marylander of the Year distinction. Image caption: Left to right: Ron Daniels, Ron Peterson, and Calvin Butler Daniels and Peterson have been nominated alongside BGE CEO Calvin Butler for their work on BLocal, a sweeping plan that leverages the collective economic power of 25 founding companies to build, buy, and hire locally in Baltimore. The program aims to infuse at least $69 million into local and minority-owned, women-owned, and disadvantaged businesses over the next three years. More from The Sun: For the last few years under the leadership of President Ronald J. Daniels, Johns Hopkins University has pursued
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/12/eager-park-live-near-your-work-lottery/
 Through one-day lottery, dozens of Johns Hopkins employees put down roots in Eager Park | Hub
Katie Pearce
Through one-day lottery, dozens of Johns Hopkins employees put down roots in Eager Park $36,000 incentive attracts buyers to developing East Baltimore neighborhood Video: Len Turner and David Schmelick By Katie Pearce / Published Sept 12, 2016 After landing the sixth spot in the lottery Saturday, Alexandra Hill stepped forward to select her new home in Eager Park. Hill, an administrative resident at The Johns Hopkins Hospital, chose a townhouse within walking distance of her work. She was accompanied by both her mother and grandmother, who had traveled from Jamaica to Baltimore to see her become a homeowner for the first time. Hill was among dozens of Johns Hopkins employees who secured new homes Saturday in the growing East Baltimore neighborhood and took advantage of a unique, one-day opportunity: $36,000 toward a down payment and closing costs on a new house through Johns Hopkins' Live Near Your Work program. All
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/29/1812-ashland-ribbon-cutting/
 A new home for innovation in East Baltimore | Hub
Hub staff report
A new home for innovation in East Baltimore City, state officials join Hopkins leaders for 1812 Ashland ribbon-cutting By Hub staff report / Published Nov 29, 2016 The 1812 Ashland building in Baltimore's Eager Park neighborhood, near Johns Hopkins University's East Baltimore campus, marked its official opening with a ceremonial ribbon-cutting Monday afternoon. The six-story, $65.6 million laboratory and office building, located at 1812 Ashland Ave., broke ground less than two years ago. Over the next few months, it will become home to JHU's FastForward 1812 innovation hub as well as other Johns Hopkins offices and laboratories. It will also feature one of the nation's five prototype Starbucks Opportunity Cafés, a professional training operation that will prepare hundreds of area residents for employment. Image caption: Artist's rendering of the new 1812 Ashland building. Leaders from Johns Hopkins University and Medicine—including JHU President Ronald J. Daniels; Paul B. Rothman, dean of
http://hub.jhu.edu/benefits-perks/
 Benefits+Perks                 | Hub

Benefits+Perks Newest in Benefits+Perks BENEFITS + PERKS Are pets part of your household? Published April 11, 2024 You might want to brush up on all the pet-centric benefits available to you as a JHU employee BENEFITS + PERKS Finding your new home in Baltimore City Published April 11, 2024 Learn about Live Near Your Work grants and explore 10-plus neighborhoods that could be yours APRIL 22–26 Get ready for Johns Hopkins Family Building Week Published April 11, 2024 Here's a rundown of the webinar topics and times so that you can sign up now VIRTUAL Registration is open for the JHU Pre-Retirement Program Published April 11, 2024 It's never too early to start planning for your post-work life FINANCIAL WELL-BEING Do you need help managing financial stress? Published April 11, 2024 JHU partners with MMA to provide free expert, personal advice to employees FIRST STEPS Onboarding for new hires Published
http://hub.jhu.edu/happenings/
 Happenings                 | Hub

Happenings Newest in Happenings EAST BALTIMORE Eager Park Concert Series starts its summer run Published April 23, 2024 Free lunchtime and early evening performances feature jazz, classical, folk, and Caribbean music HAPPENINGS JHU hosts two career fairs for union staff Published April 12, 2024 Photos The Central HR event welcomes more than 100 participants in East Baltimore and close to 70 at Homewood BENEFITS + PERKS Finding your new home in Baltimore City Published April 11, 2024 Learn about Live Near Your Work grants and explore 10-plus neighborhoods that could be yours APRIL 22–26 Get ready for Johns Hopkins Family Building Week Published April 11, 2024 Here's a rundown of the webinar topics and times so that you can sign up now COMMUNITY The Mayor's Annual Spring Cleanup happens April 27 Published April 11, 2024 Grab your gloves and roll up your sleeves to help make Baltimore cleaner and healthier
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/eager-park/articles/
 Eager park | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Eager park Community East Baltimore Historical Library opens its doors Published Dec 2, 2021 The space, developed with support from Johns Hopkins and located in three row homes attached to Henderson-Hopkins School, aims to preserve and celebrate the history of East Baltimore Community On track for a healthy school year Published Sept 14, 2021 A festive late summer evening in Eager Park marked the grand opening of a new track and field at Henderson-Hopkins, kicking off a yearlong focus on exercise and wellness at the K-8 school. COMMUNITY The power of teamwork Published June 14, 2017 Photos Johns Hopkins volunteers share the heavy lifting to build Eager Park's playground Eager Park A new community centerpiece Published May 8, 2017 Photos Johns Hopkins celebrates ribbon-cutting for 5.5-acre park with Baltimore leaders HAPPENINGS East Baltimore's Eager Park opens May 6 Published May 2, 2017 The neighborhood's centerpiece was designed as
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/east-baltimore/articles/
 East baltimore | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles East baltimore Community East Baltimore Historical Library opens its doors Published Dec 2, 2021 The space, developed with support from Johns Hopkins and located in three row homes attached to Henderson-Hopkins School, aims to preserve and celebrate the history of East Baltimore Community On track for a healthy school year Published Sept 14, 2021 A festive late summer evening in Eager Park marked the grand opening of a new track and field at Henderson-Hopkins, kicking off a yearlong focus on exercise and wellness at the K-8 school. Community Hopkins launches initiative to feed 2,000 families in need Published April 24, 2020 Partnership with community organizations provides emergency food assistance to families impacted by COVID-19 Hopkins helps break ground on new homes in East Baltimore Published Dec 17, 2019 Johns Hopkins leaders were among civic organizations and developers to celebrate the new and revitalized homes that will be part
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/fastforward/articles/
 Fastforward | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Fastforward Entrepreneurship Female-led student startups pursue innovation in reproductive health products Published July 5, 2022 The startup teams created products to help ease menstrual cycle tracking and offer a comfortable and sustainable alternative to traditional menstrual cups Tech Ventures New accelerator to fuel student startups Published Aug 27, 2019 FastForward U's nine-week program will be divided into two tracks for beginner and advanced student entrepreneurs Startups Pledge to give back Published July 16, 2019 Founders Pledge encourages successful startups to pay it forward with support for current Hopkins entrepreneurs Tech Ventures New innovation hub opens its doors Published Sept 13, 2018 FastForward U Homewood features meeting and event spaces, plus a makerspace equipped with laser cutters, 3-D printers, and more Tech Ventures A new hub for innovation Published May 21, 2018 'FastForward U Homewood' set to debut this fall with a 2,200-square-foot makerspace and co-working space Entrepreneurship Five
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/live-near-your-work/articles/
 Live near your work | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Live near your work Benefits Homeownership program expands its reach Published Sept 16, 2019 Community celebration marks the growth of the Live Near Your Work program, which over the past decade has put more than 1,100 Johns Hopkins employees on the path to homeownership in Baltimore City LIVE NEAR YOUR WORK Walking tour: Ednor Gardens–Lakeside Published Sept 16, 2016 Visit Tudor, Norman, and Colonial houses—and learn how you might qualify for a home-buying grant Eager Park Buying into Baltimore Published Sept 12, 2016 Video One-day home-buying lottery draws dozens of Hopkins employees EVENT Your new house in Eager Park: What you need to know Published Aug 31, 2016 Details announced for one-day home-buying extravaganza with $36,000 grants ONE DAY ONLY Get $36,000 toward buying a house Published July 19, 2016 Special offer for Johns Hopkins employees for new and renovated houses in Eager Park BENEFITS A new helping
http://hub.jhu.edu/topics/benefits-perks/articles/2/
 Benefits+Perks | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Benefits+Perks BENEFITS + PERKS WEX filing deadline for 2023 FSA expenses is April 30 Published March 12, 2024 Unused funds from $30 to $610 will carry over to 2024; under and over amounts will be forfeited VIRTUAL Introducing the Benefits Insight Series for JHU employees Published Feb 16, 2024 These monthly sessions are your gateway to a deeper understanding of your workplace perks VIRTUAL Networking groups connect Johns Hopkins employees Published Feb 15, 2024 Young professionals, future retirees, adult caregivers, and those caring for children with disabilities can share concerns and advice with others in similar situations REGISTER NOW Get advice with Care Talks from Care@Work Published Feb 15, 2024 Experts offer guidance on confident parenting, caring for aging loved ones, emotional wellness, succeeding at work, and more FINANCIAL WELL-BEING Tax Day is coming. Are you prepared? Published Feb 15, 2024 As a JHU employee, you have access
http://hub.jhu.edu/topics/happenings/articles/2/
 Happenings | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Happenings APRIL 30 Workshop: Understanding Your Conflict Resolution Style Published March 12, 2024 This course is designed to help staff realize how conflict is essential for a healthy team and to identify leadership skills needed to accommodate it APRIL 8 Workshop: Mastering Your Memory Published March 12, 2024 Your takeaways? Elevated people skills, presenting without notes, heightened levels of focus, and improved mental organization APRIL 4 Workshop: Impromptu Speaking Published March 12, 2024 Become a better facilitator or conversationalist to get better results in your work and personal lives course MARCH 25 & 26 Workshop: Presentation Skills for a Virtual Audience Published Feb 15, 2024 How information is presented can determine the effectiveness of the message and its outcome MARCH 19 Workshop: Managing Up for Supervisors and Non-Supervisors Published Feb 15, 2024 Explore specific strategies and customize best practices that will help you add value to your professional
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/05/15/fast-foward-east-new-space/
Johns Hopkins' East Baltimore business accelerator to expand to new space | Hub
Jania Matthews
Johns Hopkins' East Baltimore business accelerator to expand to new space New seven-level, $65.6M laboratory and office building expected to be completed by August 2016 Image caption: Artist's rendering of the new 1812 Ashland building By Jania Matthews / Published May 15, 2015 In just three months, demand for lab and office space at the Johns Hopkins innovation hub FastForward East has exceeded supply. The FastForward program, designed to move academic findings through translational research into the commercial marketplace, was introduced to East Baltimore earlier this year in an interim facility in the Rangos Building at 855 N. Wolfe St. In that time, all of its offices and lab benches have been rented. Image caption: Artist's rendering of the new 1812 Ashland building Currently, preparations are being made to expand FastForward East from 6,000 square feet to 25,000 square feet of office and lab space. This facility will be a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/02/05/fast-forward-incubator-east-baltimore/
Successful Johns Hopkins business accelerator expands to East Baltimore location | Hub
Jill Rosen
Successful Johns Hopkins business accelerator expands to East Baltimore location FastForward East has 6,000 square feet of office, lab space adjacent to JHU's medical campus Image caption: FastForward East is located in the Rangos Building at 855 N. Wolfe St. in East Baltimore. By Jill Rosen / Published Feb 5, 2015 Building on the success of Johns Hopkins University's first business accelerator, FastForward, in demand since it opened nearly two years ago, the university is expanding its innovation program to East Baltimore. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Called FastForward East, the new innovation hub aims to drive more economic development in Baltimore by supporting local start-ups as they head to market. Grand opening events are planned for next week at the new site, located in the Rangos Building in the 800 block of North Wolfe Street, just north of the university's East Baltimore medical campus. On Tuesday,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/06/24/fastforward-business-accelerator/
New campus accelerator aims to turn high-tech ideas into businesses | Hub
Jill Rosen
New campus accelerator aims to turn high-tech ideas into businesses FastForward equips JHU start-ups with rent-deferred office space and top-of-the-line equipment, and helps them launch businesses By Jill Rosen / Published June 24, 2013 The Johns Hopkins University is set to unveil FastForward, a groundbreaking business accelerator that promises to spark cutting-edge technology companies and then keep them in the city to bolster the local economy. The university's Whiting School of Engineering launched FastForward to help turn the best ideas born on campus into moneymaking ventures. The university's first accelerator is located in the historic Stieff Silver building on the north side of Baltimore near the Homewood campus. Four fledgling companies have already moved into the building and another four are expected to join them over the next six months. At capacity the facility will hold 16 companies. "Given the interest we're already seeing, we're really on to something here,"
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/07/09/hopkins-fast-forward-incubator/
Johns Hopkins FastForward accelerator fuels promising startup businesses | Hub
Andrew Meyers
Johns Hopkins FastForward accelerator fuels promising startup businesses In first year, 9 startups were accepted by School of Engineering incubator By Andrew Meyers / Published July 9, 2014 When the Whiting School of Engineering at Johns Hopkins University launched FastForward, it did so with the goal of nurturing the valuable intellectual property flowing out of the school and fostering a spirit of entrepreneurship across the campus, modeled on the environment of Silicon Valley. In its first year, FastForward has lived up to its promise and the spirit of its name. To date, the program has considered some 65 applications, accepting nine startups into its space in the historic and newly renovated Stieff Silver Building, just a mile from the Homewood Campus. The industrial era building was constructed in 1928, but has been newly renovated to deliver 21st-century services. Shared equipment and lab space, so often a major barrier for engineering
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/03/04/innovation-ecosystem-implementation-plan/
Johns Hopkins details $40M plan to support innovation, entrepreneurship | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins details $40M plan to support innovation, entrepreneurship By Hub staff report / Published March 4, 2015 Johns Hopkins University today unveiled specific steps it plans to take to cultivate and support a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship and respond to the strategic challenges detailed in last year's committee report on the topic. The implementation plan, the release of which was announced today to the university community in a message from JHU President Ronald J. Daniels, addresses the 22 specific recommendations to bolster the university's innovation initiatives that were included in the May 2014 innovation report. The plan details some efforts that are already under way—including the recent opening of an interim space for the FastForward East business accelerator in East Baltimore and the launch of a mentoring program for aspiring entrepreneurs—as well as new endeavors, including the creation of a pre-seed grant program to support inventions in the
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/02/05/fast-forward-incubator-east-baltimore
 Successful Johns Hopkins business accelerator expands to East Baltimore location | Hub
Jill Rosen
Successful Johns Hopkins business accelerator expands to East Baltimore location FastForward East has 6,000 square feet of office, lab space adjacent to JHU's medical campus Image caption: FastForward East is located in the Rangos Building at 855 N. Wolfe St. in East Baltimore. By Jill Rosen / Published Feb 5, 2015 Building on the success of Johns Hopkins University's first business accelerator, FastForward, in demand since it opened nearly two years ago, the university is expanding its innovation program to East Baltimore. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Called FastForward East, the new innovation hub aims to drive more economic development in Baltimore by supporting local start-ups as they head to market. Grand opening events are planned for next week at the new site, located in the Rangos Building in the 800 block of North Wolfe Street, just north of the university's East Baltimore medical campus. On Tuesday,
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/biotechnology/articles/
 Biotechnology | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Biotechnology public health How best to behead a mosquito Published Fall 2019 Engineer Russell Taylor and a group of students design a device to make it easier for biotech company Sanaria to develop a malaria vaccine / Johns Hopkins Magazine JHU teams take second, third in biotech case competition Published April 28, 2016 Hopkins student-organized event focuses on helping respiratory device get to market Hopkins inHealth Next gen sweat test Published March 16, 2016 JHU team developing wearable sensor for cystic fibrosis treatment Technology venture JHU vaccine technology could help treat allergies Published Oct 13, 2015 Video University receives portion of $300M deal between Immunomic Therapeutics, Astellas Pharma Demo Day Showcase for ideas Published Aug 4, 2015 East Baltimore biotech startup CDI Labs among companies featured at White House event Student team takes first Published June 29, 2015 Five-member team of Hopkins students wins biotech competition for third
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/entrepreneurship/articles/
 Entrepreneurship | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship HopStart challenge showcases student start-ups Published May 13, 2024 Cross-disciplinary teams pitched plans for an at-home glaucoma sensor, a hub for music-related services, biodegradable fishing nets, and more Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship hub renamed to honor Pava LaPere Published April 8, 2024 The Pava Marie LaPere Center for Entrepreneurship, formerly FastForward U, held its rededication ceremony on April 6 Entrepreneurship 'Nonstop, relentless, inspiring' Published April 4, 2024 The FastForward U innovation hub will be renamed in honor of Pava Marie LaPere, a trailblazing entrepreneur both at Johns Hopkins University and in Baltimore who died last year High-quality wine for adventurers Published Winter 2023 Emily Dabish Yahkind, A&S '16 (MA), got the idea for her business, SolSummit, on the trails / Johns Hopkins Magazine Playing defense against concussions Published Winter 2023 JHU sophomore Carter Hogg founded a company to create a piece of protective equipment that reduces the risk
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/tech-transfer/articles/
 Tech transfer | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Tech transfer Start-up space FastForward expands Published Feb 5, 2015 Business incubator has 6,000 square feet of office, lab space adjacent to JHU's medical campus Conference highlights JHU's growing technology transfer efforts, impact Published Nov 10, 2014 More than 100 academicians, researchers from around the world gathered last month for conference at Carey Business School Google news Tech acceleration pact Published Aug 7, 2014 Johns Hopkins one of 16 universities to partner with Google's ATAP group in effort to speed product development Tech Transfer's Blakeslee to retire Published July 22, 2014 He joined JHU in 1999 as associate general counsel, has served as executive director of Tech Transfer Office since 2006 New head for commercialization efforts Published Sept 20, 2013 Entrepreneur Wyskiel named senior advisor to the president for enterprise development From the bench to the world Published Nov 2012 University examines ways to ensure its health-related discoveries
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/06/13/supreme-court-human-gene-ruling/
Supreme Court says naturally occurring human gene parts cannot be patented | Hub
Hub staff report
Supreme Court says naturally occurring human gene parts cannot be patented JHU professor Kazazian among first plaintiffs in case vs. Myriad Genetics By Hub staff report / Published June 13, 2013 Beginning in 1995, in a genetics lab at the University of Pennsylvania, Haig Kazazian and his colleague Arupa Ganguly tested roughly 500 women per year for the breast-cancer-predicting genes BRCA1 and BRCA2, whose mutations are linked to increased hereditary risk for breast and ovarian cancer. Image caption: Haig Kazazian Image credit: Johns Hopkins University In 1999, they received a cease and desist letter from Myriad Genetics Inc., which had successfully patented the genes in 1998. In 2008, Kazazian&mash;a 1962 Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine graduate and a professor in the school's Institute of Genetic Medicine—and Ganguly became the first plaintiffs in the ACLU's case against Myriad and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Lower courts approved Myriad's patents,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/09/20/wyksiel-senior-adviser/
Wyskiel to lead Johns Hopkins tech commercialization, corporate relations | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Wyskiel to lead Johns Hopkins tech commercialization, corporate relations She replaces Melissaratos, who has been in role since 2006 By Dennis O'Shea / Published Sept 20, 2013 Image caption: Christy Wyskiel Christy Wyskiel, an entrepreneur and investor who has started, supported, and analyzed businesses in health care and the life sciences for nearly 20 years, has been appointed senior advisor to the president for enterprise development at The Johns Hopkins University. Wyskiel will oversee university commercialization of discoveries and inventions by faculty researchers. She will also cultivate its growing relationships with entrepreneurs and the corporate community. "Christy brings a singular blend of experience, ideas, and passion to this position," said Ronald J. Daniels, president of the university. "She is the perfect leader to help us amplify our innovation and entrepreneurship efforts and develop even more new and exciting partnerships with businesses and other stakeholders in the region." Wyskiel will fill
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/04/10/wake-forest-biotech-competition/
Student team from Johns Hopkins places first at Wake Forest biotech competition | Hub
Hub staff report
Student team from Johns Hopkins places first at Wake Forest biotech competition Representatives from five JHU schools bring home $10,000 top prize Image caption: Johns Hopkins team members (from left) Paloma Navas Gutierrez, Matthew Koch, Ying-Ying Wang, team leader Po-Yuan (Robert) Hsiao, and Yuanming Suo. Credit: Allen Aycock / Wake Forest University School of Business By Hub staff report / Published April 10, 2014 For the second consecutive year, a team of students from Johns Hopkins University won the $10,000 first prize in the Biotechnology Conference and Case Competition at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C. Image caption: Johns Hopkins team members (from left) Paloma Navas Gutierrez, Matthew Koch, Ying-Ying Wang, team leader Po-Yuan (Robert) Hsiao, and Yuanming Suo. Image credit: Allen Aycock / Wake Forest University School of Business The JHU student team consisted of: Matthew Koch, a member of the 2014 class of the Carey Business School's Global
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/02/18/wake-forest-biotech/
Johns Hopkins students win Wake Forest biotech case competition | Hub
Patrick Ercolano
Johns Hopkins students win Wake Forest biotech case competition Image caption: The winning team from Johns Hopkins, from left: Robin Kabir, Michelle Zwernemann, Kalyan Kanakamedala, Nicolae Done, and Kyungmin Song. By Patrick Ercolano / Published Feb 18, 2013 A student team from Johns Hopkins University won the $10,000 first prize in the 4th Annual Biotechnology Conference and Case Competition held this month at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C. Eight student teams from leading American universities were assigned a business problem by competition co-sponsor Boston Scientific, a Massachusetts-based medical equipment company. They were asked to create a strategy that would enable Boston Scientific to market its urology products in China. Given a week to prepare their proposals, the teams made the final presentations to a panel of judges Feb. 9 at Wake Forest. Results were announced later that evening at an awards dinner in downtown Winston-Salem. The Johns Hopkins team
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/04/10/emory-global-health-case-competition/
Team from Johns Hopkins places second at Emory Global Health Case Competition | Hub
Hub staff report
Team from Johns Hopkins places second at Emory Global Health Case Competition Team included graduate students from JHU schools of Medicine, Public Health, Nursing, and Business Image caption: Johns Hopkins team members (from left) Daniel Carnegie, Arielle Slam, Jacob Cox, Hayley Droppert, David Lee, and Abby Dowling. Credit: Courtesy Emory Global Health Institute By Hub staff report / Published April 10, 2014 A team representing Johns Hopkins recently took second place at the 2014 International Emory Global Health Case Competition, which was held last month in Atlanta, Ga. The event featured 24 teams from across the country and around the world. Each team was required to have members representing at least three different disciplines. The Johns Hopkins team was made up of six graduate students from the schools of Medicine, Public Health, Nursing, and Business. The team members were: Daniel Carnegie, an MPH/MBA student at the Bloomberg School of Public
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/07/22/blakeslee-tech-transfer-retirement/
Wesley Blakeslee, executive director of JHU Tech Transfer Office, to retire | Hub
Hub staff report
Wesley Blakeslee, executive director of JHU Tech Transfer Office, to retire He joined Johns Hopkins in 1999 as associate general counsel By Hub staff report / Published July 22, 2014 Wesley D. Blakeslee, who has served as executive director of the Johns Hopkins University Technology Transfer Office since 2006, will retire at the end of this month. Blakeslee's retirement was announced in an email to the School of Medicine faculty by Christy Wyskiel, senior adviser to the president for enterprise development; and Landon S. King, executive vice dean for Johns Hopkins Medicine. Image caption: Wesley D. Blakeslee Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University "Under Wes' leadership, the Technology Transfer Office has grown to include more than 50 professionals working with Johns Hopkins researchers and inventors to license, patent, and commercialize the intellectual property of our faculty," they wrote. "During his tenure, the office reached record levels of invention
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/08/07/google-johns-hopkins-pact/
Johns Hopkins partners with Google on technology development pact | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Johns Hopkins partners with Google on technology development pact Google's ATAP group aims to speed product development By Phil Sneiderman / Published Aug 7, 2014 The Johns Hopkins University has entered into a partnership agreement with Google's Advanced Technology and Projects group aimed at speeding up the development of new technology and moving the resulting products toward the marketplace more quickly. Image caption: Matthew Green Image credit: Cara Walen The agreement will enable ATAP to draw on the expertise of computer scientists and others at Johns Hopkins and approve funds for joint technology projects in as few as 30 days. That turnaround time is much shorter than the period typically required for obtaining grants from government agencies and private organizations. Google's ATAP group focuses on product development and R&D. The guidelines for this collaboration—covering funding procedures, intellectual property rights, and research publication rules—are spelled out in Google's Multi-University Research Agreement.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/11/10/tech-transfer-conference-carey/
 Conference highlights JHU's growing technology transfer efforts, impact | Hub
Sam Hopkins
Conference highlights JHU's growing technology transfer efforts, impact By Sam Hopkins / Published Nov 10, 2014 More than 100 academicians and researchers from around the world gathered last month for the 2014 Technology Transfer Society Conference in Baltimore, hosted by the Johns Hopkins Carey Business School. Researchers came from across the United States, as well as Japan, China, South Korea, the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, and Greece, among other countries. Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels kicked off the conference by highlighting the impact of tech transfer on regional development and the potential for schools such as Johns Hopkins to advance research innovations that help solve major global problems. "As a president of a major research university today, I feel no ambiguity about the importance of tech transfer," Daniels said to the audience. He went on to highlight efforts to connect research to positive outcomes for the communities and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/29/healthcare-strategy-conference-and-case-competition/
Johns Hopkins students win biotech case competition for third consecutive year | Hub
Luke Lavoie
Johns Hopkins students win biotech case competition for third consecutive year Multidisciplinary team develops growth plan for Boston Scientific division By Luke Lavoie / Published June 29, 2015 A five-member team of Johns Hopkins students took home first place and $10,000 in the sixth annual Wake Forest University Healthcare Strategy Conference and Case Competition, the third consecutive first-place finish for JHU students in the competition. The Johns Hopkins team consisted of Christopher "Kitt" Burch, a 2015 graduate of the Global MBA program at the Carey Business School; Basil Hussain, a PhD student in the Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine; Steven Wang, a PhD student studying cellular and molecular medicine at the School of Medicine; Christopher Bailey, a fourth-year medical student; and Tim Xu, a third-year medical student. Boston University, Cornell, University of Maryland, MIT, North Carolina State, Rutgers, University of Texas at
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/04/cdi-labs-white-house-demo-day/
East Baltimore biotech startup among companies showcased at White House Demo Day | Hub
Hub staff report
East Baltimore biotech startup among companies showcased at White House Demo Day Three Johns Hopkins researchers among co-founders of CDI Labs By Hub staff report / Published Aug 4, 2015 After 10 years as a successful veterinarian, Ignacio "Nacho" Pino decided to dedicate himself to work that could bring state-of-the-art biotechnology research to his home of Puerto Rico. CDI Laboratories—a company he founded in 2008 along with Johns Hopkins University researchers Heng Zhu and Seth Blackshaw, JHU professor emeritus Jef Boeke, and two others (Dan Eichinger and Joe Bonaventura)—aims to produce research-grade protein and antibody products that support scientific research on cancer, autoimmunity, and infectious diseases. The company is one of more than 30 startups being showcased in Washington, D.C., today as part of the first-ever White House Demo Day, which will highlight the work of a diverse group of entrepreneurs from across the country. President Obama will personally meet
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/08/05/engineering-deans-diversity-initiative/
Hopkins Engineering dean joins other leaders in pledge to increase diversity | Hub
Hub staff report
Hopkins Engineering dean joins other leaders in pledge to increase diversity Deans of more than 100 leading U.S. engineering schools say they will create more opportunities for underrepresented groups By Hub staff report / Published Aug 5, 2015 Ed Schlesinger, dean of the Whiting School of Engineering at Johns Hopkins University, joined leaders of more than 100 leading U.S. engineering schools in pledging to take steps to increase opportunities for women and other underrepresented groups to pursue meaningful careers in engineering. Image caption: Ed Schlesinger "Diversity and inclusiveness are essential for the development of creative solutions to the world's challenges and to enrich life," read a statement released Tuesday by the American Society for Engineering Education and signed by Schlesinger and deans of 101 other engineering schools. "We understand that, at its most fundamental level, diversity is not just ethical human practice," Schlesinger added, "but also good engineering practice, and
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/02/hemi-partnership-morgan-state
 Johns Hopkins, Morgan State establish new science, engineering partnership | Hub
Lisa De Nike Ercolano
Johns Hopkins, Morgan State establish new science, engineering partnership First eight students in five-year program will begin work this summer By Lisa De Nike Ercolano / Published May 2, 2014 Johns Hopkins University and Morgan State University today will join forces in a new collaborative educational program designed to combine the strengths of both institutions to benefit their students and faculty members, as well as the fields of science and engineering. The Extreme Science Internships program will build a bridge between talented science and engineering students at Morgan State and faculty and researchers at the Hopkins Extreme Materials Institute (HEMI)—where researchers work to advance the fundamental science associated with materials and structures under extreme conditions, such as high-velocity impact—as well as other universities, laboratories, and research institutes in nine states and Germany. The partnership will be announced this morning at Morgan's Center for the Built Environment and Infrastructure Studies, where
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/johns-hopkins-extreme-materials-institute/articles/
 Johns hopkins extreme materials institute | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Johns hopkins extreme materials institute Engineering JHU-created material could make next-gen helmets, bumpers Published March 10, 2022 The lightweight, foam-like material could reduce fuel consumption in vehicles and make protective gear more comfortable Extreme puzzle draws inspiration from copper grains Published Winter 2019 Extreme puzzle draws inspiration from copper grains / Johns Hopkins Magazine Extreme materials Otherworldly art Published Nov 12, 2018 Art student Amy Wetsch builds sculptures inspired by planetary environments explored by Hopkins scientist Sarah Horst Extreme art The writing is on the walls (and curtains) Published April 11, 2018 Kimberly Hall explores research through an artist's eye with interactive installation created as part of the HEMI/MICA Extreme Arts Program Materials science Arts, to the extreme Published Sept 21, 2017 HEMI/MICA Extreme Arts program brings faculty, students together to translate research on extreme events in new and creative ways Broken art Published Summer 2017 Hopkins Extreme
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/materials-science/articles/
 Materials science | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Materials science Materials science Liquid crystals could revolutionize robots of the future Published March 4, 2024 Robots, cameras could be made of liquid crystals, thanks to a new discovery that significantly expands the potential of the chemicals already common in computer displays Faculty honors Two named to National Academy of Inventors Published Dec 20, 2023 Materials scientist Hai-Quan Mao, cancer researcher Victor Velculescu among 162 fellows recognized for contributions to science and society Playing defense against concussions Published Winter 2023 JHU sophomore Carter Hogg founded a company to create a piece of protective equipment that reduces the risk of concussion / Johns Hopkins Magazine Materials science Tiny spinal stimulator, big impact on paralysis Published Nov 27, 2023 A device designed by Johns Hopkins researchers may hold promise for restoring mobility to those with lower limb paralysis Scientific mystery Blood Falls, solved Published Fall 2023 A waterfall that appears
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/02/07/digital-defense/
Extreme Materials Institute aims to make stronger, lighter materials for defense | Hub
Hub staff report
Extreme Materials Institute aims to make stronger, lighter materials for defense By Hub staff report / Published Feb 7, 2013 Douglas Birch writes in the new issue of Johns Hopkins Engineering that researchers at the new Johns Hopkins Extreme Materials Institute (HEMI) are working with the Department of Defense to figure out how to make tougher, lighter materials to be used in blast-resistant vehicles, buildings, and body armor. According to Whiting School of Engineering professor and HEMI director K.T. Ramesh, the institute will employ analytical and digital tools to speed up the process of developing materials. Throughout the history of warfare new weapons have always demanded better armor—the stuff that absorbs and disperses the energy from an impact. Creating the stuff that other stuff is made of can be a slow process. The White House's 2011 Materials Genome Initiative found that it typically took decades for new materials to go
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/10/hemi-innovation-institute/
 Hopkins materials institute to support U.S. manufacturing innovation initiative | Hub
Hub staff report
Hopkins materials institute to support U.S. manufacturing innovation initiative By Hub staff report / Published March 10, 2014 The Hopkins Extreme Materials Institute—HEMI, for short—has been selected to provide key expertise related to blasts and ballistics for a new one of two new manufacturing innovation institutes led by the Department of Defense. HEMI will support the Detroit-based Lightweight and Modern Metals Manufacturing Innovation Institute, or LM3I, which pairs the world's leading aluminum, titanium, and high-strength steel manufacturers with universities and laboratories pioneering new technology development and research. The long-term goal of the LM3I Institute will be to expand the market for and create new consumers of products and systems that utilize new, lightweight, high‑performing metals and alloys by removing technological barriers to their manufacture. LM3I, along with the Chicago-based Digital Manufacturing and Design Innovation, or DMDI, will be supported by a $140 million federal commitment combined with more than $140
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/05/02/hemi-partnership-morgan-state/
 Johns Hopkins, Morgan State establish new science, engineering partnership | Hub
Lisa De Nike Ercolano
Johns Hopkins, Morgan State establish new science, engineering partnership First eight students in five-year program will begin work this summer By Lisa De Nike Ercolano / Published May 2, 2014 Johns Hopkins University and Morgan State University today will join forces in a new collaborative educational program designed to combine the strengths of both institutions to benefit their students and faculty members, as well as the fields of science and engineering. The Extreme Science Internships program will build a bridge between talented science and engineering students at Morgan State and faculty and researchers at the Hopkins Extreme Materials Institute (HEMI)—where researchers work to advance the fundamental science associated with materials and structures under extreme conditions, such as high-velocity impact—as well as other universities, laboratories, and research institutes in nine states and Germany. The partnership will be announced this morning at Morgan's Center for the Built Environment and Infrastructure Studies, where
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/01/hemi-extreme-science-scholars-morgan-state/
Science, engineering partnership between Morgan State, Johns Hopkins grows | Hub
Hub staff report
Science, engineering partnership between Morgan State, Johns Hopkins grows Extreme Science Internship Program expands with creation of Extreme Science Scholars Program Image caption: The 2015 Extreme Science Scholars are presented certificates from program sponsors. Front (from left): Dennis Ayree, Hashmath Fathima, Oreoluwa Adesina, and John Beatty (Army Research Laboratory); Back (from left) Lori Graham-Brady (Johns Hopkins) and Alvin Kennedy (Morgan State). By Hub staff report / Published Oct 1, 2015 Three Morgan State University students were recently recognized as Extreme Science Scholars by representatives of Johns Hopkins University, Morgan State, and the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. The Extreme Science Scholar program supports Morgan State students pursuing a math, science, engineering of technology degree at the undergraduate or graduate levels. The program, funded by the Army Research Laboratory, provides tuition support for the 2015-2016 academic year and is an expansion of the Extreme Science Internship program, which places Morgan students in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/13/lampvax-technology-deal-immunomic-astellas/
Vaccine technology developed at Johns Hopkins could lead to treatment for peanut allergies | Hub
Katie Pearce
Vaccine technology developed at Johns Hopkins could lead to treatment for peanut allergies University will receive portion of $300M upfront payment to Immunomic Therapeutics as part of licensing agreement By Katie Pearce / Published Oct 13, 2015 A $300 million worldwide licensing agreement announced last week between Immunomic Therapeutics and Astellas Pharma to develop treatment for a wide range of allergic diseases, including peanut allergies, is the largest deal ever to come out of Johns Hopkins Technology Ventures, the patent, licensing, and technology commercialization arm of the university. The agreement, first announced Thursday night, centers on the LAMP-vax technology, which was originally developed by Thomas August, Drew Pardoll, and others at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and licensed in 2006 to Immunomic Therapeutics, a biotech company based in Hershey, Pennsylvania. The LAMP-vax platform—seen as a breakthrough technology for improving DNA vaccines—uses the body's natural biochemistry to develop a
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/12/14/east-baltimore-development-groundbreaking/
Developers break ground on new hotel, townhomes near Johns Hopkins medical campus | Hub
Patrick Smith
Developers break ground on new hotel, townhomes near Johns Hopkins medical campus 194-room extended-stay Marriott, 49 new homes planned for 5.5 acres at intersection of North Wolfe, East Eager streets Video: Johns Hopkins Medicine By Patrick Smith / Published Dec 14, 2015 Chilly, overcast weather didn't dampen spirits as developers, elected officials, and Johns Hopkins leaders broke ground Wednesday morning on two projects designed to transform part of the area north of The Johns Hopkins Hospital in East Baltimore. The 5.5 acres at North Wolfe and East Eager streets known as Eager Park will soon be home to a 15-story, $87 million hotel and 49 new townhomes. The homes will start under $300,000, and several will be ready by early 2016. The 194-room extended-stay Marriott Residential Inn East Baltimore at the Johns Hopkins Medical Campus should be complete by mid-2017, developers say. Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels; Ronald
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/16/wearable-device-cystic-fibrosis-treatment/
Johns Hopkins team develops wearable sensor for cystic fibrosis treatment | Hub
Brionna Hair
Hopkins inHealth Johns Hopkins team develops wearable sensor for cystic fibrosis treatment Device can monitor patients' response to treatment, track compliance Image caption: The undergraduate team building a wearable sensor for monitoring cystic fibrosis treatment, from left to right: Felicia Koerner, Shin-Jae Lee, Carolyn Zin, Zachery Olah, Jeanette Ortega, and Henry Sanchez. Credit: Orla Wilson By Brionna Hair / Published March 16, 2016 A team of Johns Hopkins undergraduate students and faculty is developing a wearable device intended to improve care for patients with cystic fibrosis, a genetic disease in which mucus build-up can result in lung infections, nutritional deficiencies, and respiratory failure. The condition is also marked by abnormally high levels of chloride in patient sweat, the detection of which can confirm a diagnosis. New drugs that treat the protein defect that causes cystic fibrosis symptoms also lower the chloride levels found in patients' sweat, meaning chloride detection can
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/15/apple-watch-epiwatch/
Johns Hopkins researchers to use Apple Watch data to study epilepsy | Hub
Jania Matthews
Johns Hopkins researchers to use Apple Watch data to study epilepsy EpiWatch app will help researchers better understand epilepsy, develop new methods for monitoring, managing the disorder Video: Johns Hopkins Medicine By Jania Matthews / Published Oct 15, 2015 Johns Hopkins researchers today introduced EpiWatch, an app designed to collect data from patients with epilepsy before, during, and after their seizures. The app, which runs on Apple Watch and iPhone, uses the open source ResearchKit framework designed by Apple. Image caption: The Epiwatch app runs on iPhone and Apple Watch and uses the open source ResearchKit framework designed by Apple. The data gathered for the study by the app—including physiological changes, altered responsiveness, and other characteristics of recurrent seizures—will be used by researchers to better understand epilepsy, to develop new methods for (and determine the role of technology in) monitoring and managing the disorder. More than 2.5 million people are
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/28/graduate-consulting-club-case-competition/
Johns Hopkins Graduate Consulting Club hosts sixth annual biotech case competition | Hub
Sarah Brandenburg
Johns Hopkins Graduate Consulting Club hosts sixth annual biotech case competition Teams from Hopkins take second, third place at event Image caption: Third place team "Gene-ius" (from left): Jaishree Singh, Wendy Yang, Hani Bakhshaee, Vasudha Aggarwal, and Mayriam Robles By Sarah Brandenburg / Published April 28, 2016 Teams from Johns Hopkins took second and third place in the sixth annual Biotech and Healthcare Case Competition earlier this month. The April 15 event was organized by the Johns Hopkins Graduate Consulting Club. Image caption: Second place team, "Hermetic Solutions" (from left): Bradley Waters, Rosie Jiang, Samantha Semenkow, Alyssa Walker, and Michael Ayers The competition gives participants an opportunity to develop problem-solving, teamwork, and presentation skills over the course of a week. The Johns Hopkins teams joined teams from seven other universities to develop strategic recommendations for respEQ, a Hopkins-based healthcare technology startup interested in taking its respiratory disease monitoring device to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/12/eager-park-live-near-your-work-lottery/
Through one-day lottery, dozens of Johns Hopkins employees put down roots in Eager Park | Hub
Katie Pearce
Through one-day lottery, dozens of Johns Hopkins employees put down roots in Eager Park $36,000 incentive attracts buyers to developing East Baltimore neighborhood Video: Len Turner and David Schmelick By Katie Pearce / Published Sept 12, 2016 After landing the sixth spot in the lottery Saturday, Alexandra Hill stepped forward to select her new home in Eager Park. Hill, an administrative resident at The Johns Hopkins Hospital, chose a townhouse within walking distance of her work. She was accompanied by both her mother and grandmother, who had traveled from Jamaica to Baltimore to see her become a homeowner for the first time. Hill was among dozens of Johns Hopkins employees who secured new homes Saturday in the growing East Baltimore neighborhood and took advantage of a unique, one-day opportunity: $36,000 toward a down payment and closing costs on a new house through Johns Hopkins' Live Near Your Work program. All
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/29/1812-ashland-ribbon-cutting/
A new home for innovation in East Baltimore | Hub
Hub staff report
A new home for innovation in East Baltimore City, state officials join Hopkins leaders for 1812 Ashland ribbon-cutting By Hub staff report / Published Nov 29, 2016 The 1812 Ashland building in Baltimore's Eager Park neighborhood, near Johns Hopkins University's East Baltimore campus, marked its official opening with a ceremonial ribbon-cutting Monday afternoon. The six-story, $65.6 million laboratory and office building, located at 1812 Ashland Ave., broke ground less than two years ago. Over the next few months, it will become home to JHU's FastForward 1812 innovation hub as well as other Johns Hopkins offices and laboratories. It will also feature one of the nation's five prototype Starbucks Opportunity Cafés, a professional training operation that will prepare hundreds of area residents for employment. Image caption: Artist's rendering of the new 1812 Ashland building. Leaders from Johns Hopkins University and Medicine—including JHU President Ronald J. Daniels; Paul B. Rothman, dean of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/28/lester-spence-atlantic-list/
Johns Hopkins political scientist Lester Spence gets year-end shoutout from 'The Atlantic' | Hub
Hub staff report
Best of 2016 Johns Hopkins political scientist Lester Spence gets year-end shoutout from 'The Atlantic' By Hub staff report / Published Dec 28, 2016 In this season of "Best Of" roundups, The Atlantic is pointing to Johns Hopkins professor Lester Spence. Critic Mark Greif named Spence's Knocking the Hustle: Against the Neoliberal Turn in Black Politics among the magazine's list of "Best Books We Missed in 2016". Spence, an associate professor of political science and Africana studies at Hopkins, penned Knocking the Hustle as a critique of the rise of neoliberal forces over the past few decades in America and particularly their disempowering effect on black communities. (See past coverage from Johns Hopkins Magazine.) Though it was technically published at the tail-end of 2015, Greif places it among the best reads of the past year: I really admired Lester Spence's sharp and mind-changing Knocking the Hustle: Against the Neoliberal Turn
http://hub.jhu.edu/magazine/2015/winter/lester-spence-african-americans-neoliberalism/
 Lester Spence argues that African-Americans have bought into the wrong politics | Hub
Bret McCabe
Lester Spence argues that African-Americans have bought into the wrong politics Credit: Marshall Clarke By Bret McCabe / Published Winter 2015 Businessmen love Jay-Z. Specifically, they love one line the rapper-turned-business-owner says in Kanye West's 2005 single, "Diamonds From Sierra Leone (Remix)": "I'm not a businessman, I'm a business, man." Jay-Z's declaration that he's not merely an earner in the music industry but a brand all to himself became the lead sentence in a Forbes piece titled "10 Startup Tips from Hip-Hop Lyrics," which pointed out that Silicon Valley venture capitalist Ben Horowitz uses rap lyrics to teach business lessons. In a different Forbes piece, entrepreneur, best-selling author, and ViSalus Sciences CEO Ryan Blair used Jay-Z, and that lyric specifically, as a signpost guiding his own evolution from a "suit-wearing, briefcase-carrying businessman" to "creating a brand in business unique to myself." Being a business, man: You're not just making your
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/africana-studies/
 Africana studies | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Africana studies In memoriam Black Studies scholar Shani Mott dies at 47 Published March 14, 2024 Mott, a lecturer in the Center for Africana Studies and Department of History, joined JHU's faculty in 2008 Arts+culture Exhibit celebrates beloved jazz vocalist, daughter of Baltimore Published Feb 19, 2024 Known for her philosophy of 'soft power,' Ethel Ennis said she was proud to have bloomed where she was planted, in her hometown of Baltimore Diversity+Inclusion Three scholarly clusters chosen for Faculty of Excellence Program support Published Nov 16, 2022 13 new faculty hires planned in three areas of interdisciplinary study, with support coming from the Fannie Gaston-Johansson Faculty of Excellence Program Spotlight Minkah Makalani ventures beyond what can be imagined Published April 12, 2022 The new director of the interdisciplinary Johns Hopkins Center for Africana Studies has seen firsthand how collaboration between the academy and the community can yield ideas
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/black-politics/
 Black politics | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Black politics Q+A The persistence of racism in America: What comes next? Published June 23, 2020 Historian and Baltimore resident Martha Jones discusses the role of Black women in the fight for equality and justice and the overdue need for honest reflection about the roots of a worldwide protest movement Q+A A historian's view of women's suffrage Published Feb 21, 2020 Martha Jones discusses the legacy of the 19th Amendment and the black women suffragists who sparked and continue the voting rights movement NONFICTION History of a demand Published Winter 2017 In his recent book, Chris Lebron explores the political and philosophical ideas implicit in the modern Black Lives Matter movement / Johns Hopkins Magazine Racial justice The 'paper-rock-scissors' view of Charlottesville Published Aug 15, 2017 In commentary, historian N.D.B. Connolly puts America's legacy of white supremacy into context of childhood game / The Washington Post Race and
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/christianity/
 Christianity | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Christianity Race and politics Knocking the neoliberal hustle Published Winter 2015 Lester Spence argues that African-Americans have bought into the wrong politics / Johns Hopkins Magazine Humanities Illuminated touch Published Spring 2014 In her debut book, alum and faculty member Jennifer Kingsley explores the art of the Bernward Gospels. / Johns Hopkins Magazine
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/lester-spence/
 Lester spence | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Lester spence Lester Spence gets $50K faculty diversity prize Published May 15, 2017 Associate professor will be among those honored at annual Diversity Recognition Awards Ceremony Best of 2016 Lester Spence gets year-end shoutout from 'The Atlantic' Published Dec 28, 2016 The Atlantic gives accolades to JHU professor's treatise on neoliberalism Race and politics Knocking the neoliberal hustle Published Winter 2015 Lester Spence argues that African-Americans have bought into the wrong politics / Johns Hopkins Magazine Post-occupied Published Winter 2012 Writers, artists, and photographers parse the Occupy Wall Street movement / Johns Hopkins Magazine
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/neoliberalism/
 Neoliberalism | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Neoliberalism Race and politics Knocking the neoliberal hustle Published Winter 2015 Lester Spence argues that African-Americans have bought into the wrong politics / Johns Hopkins Magazine
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/political-science/
 Political science | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Political science Faculty Honors Lilliana Mason awarded Carnegie Fellowship Published May 8, 2024 An associate professor of political science at the SNF Agora Institute at Johns Hopkins University, Mason is one of 28 scholars receiving grants of up to $200,000 to research political polarization Hopkins in D.C. JHU to launch new School of Government and Policy Published Oct 6, 2023 The university's 10th academic division, based in Washington, D.C., will build on JHU's longstanding leadership in research and discovery to develop solutions to contemporary policy challenges Voices Justice for all? Published June 7, 2023 Political scientist and sociologist Vesla Weaver listens to the voices of people whose experience of democracy, citizenship, and government is completely different from that of those not living under police surveillance Changing hearts, minds, and stomachs Published Spring 2023 SAIS alumni Téa Ivanovic and Peter Schechter founded Immigrant Food to defend the vision of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/01/12/barbara-mikulski-hopkins-professorship/
Longtime Congresswoman Barbara Mikulski joins Johns Hopkins faculty | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Longtime Congresswoman Barbara Mikulski joins Johns Hopkins faculty Five-term U.S. senator from Maryland who spent four decades in Congress named professor of public policy, presidential adviser Image caption: Barbara Mikulski speaks at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory after the New Horizons Pluto flyby in July 2015. Credit: NASA By Dennis O'Shea / Published Jan 12, 2017 Barbara A. Mikulski, the longest-serving woman in the history of Congress and Maryland's longest-tenured U.S. senator, will join the Johns Hopkins University next week as a professor of public policy and adviser to the university's president. Mikulski, who retired from the Senate earlier this month after completing her fifth six-year term, will participate in lectures, seminars, and symposia across the university. She will organize gatherings featuring nationally known policymakers and other leaders. "Being at Johns Hopkins enables me to continue to play a role locally in shaping Baltimore's future while promoting a national
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/03/02/mikulski-retirement-daniels/
JHU president releases statement on retirement of Md. Sen. Barbara Mikulski | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU president releases statement on retirement of Md. Sen. Barbara Mikulski Daniels praises her 'unshakable belief in the importance of supporting education, discovery, and innovation' By Hub staff report / Published March 2, 2015 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels released a statement today about the career of Maryland Sen. Barbara Mikulski, who announced this morning that this, her fifth term as a U.S. senator, would be her last. Mikulski, 78, is a native of Baltimore's Highlandtown neighborhood and the longest-serving woman in the history of Congress, having been elected to the House of Representatives in 1976 before winning a Senate seat in 1987. She would have been up for re-election in 2016. Daniels praised Mikulski's "unshakable belief in the importance of supporting education, discovery, and innovation." His complete statement: "For more than four decades, Barbara Mikulski has worked with charisma, pragmatism, and relentless resolve on causes that range
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/01/17/judah-adashi-unseen-kalief-browder/
In 'Unseen,' Peabody composer Judah Adashi explores art, ethics, and activism | Hub
Hub staff report
Music In 'Unseen,' Peabody composer Judah Adashi explores art, ethics, and activism Composition, which premieres in part later this month, addresses life, death of Kalief Browder By Hub staff report / Published Jan 17, 2017 Image caption: Judah Adashi Art, ethics, and the prison-industrial complex blend and inform each other in Peabody Institute faculty composer Judah Adashi's new work, Unseen: Kalief Browder and Solitary Confinement in America. Unseen, which will premiere in part at a Johns Hopkins University practical ethics event later this month, grapples with the ethical responsibility of artists operating within their sociopolitical context, and examines the ethics of solitary confinement and the mass incarceration of African-Americans. Browder was 16 years old when he was arrested and held at the Rikers Island Correctional Facility in New York for a crime he said he did not commit. He remained in the prison without a trial for three years, spending
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/01/20/utl-leed-platinum-rating/
Undergraduate Teaching Laboratories building gets LEED platinum rating | Hub
Hub staff report
Undergraduate Teaching Laboratories building gets LEED platinum rating Credit: Karl Connolly By Hub staff report / Published Jan 20, 2017 The Undergraduate Teaching Laboratories, a state-of-the-art lab space on the Johns Hopkins University Homewood campus, has received the highest certification available—platinum—from the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design program. The internationally recognized LEED program is administered by the U.S. Green Building Council and provides a numeric score for green building design, construction, operations, and maintenance. The UTL building received a numeric score of 80 out of 108 possible points. "The university has a LEED silver standard, so to achieve platinum for such a resource-intensive building truly speaks to the design and construction team's commitment to integrate sustainability in innovative ways throughout the space," said Ashley Pennington, program manager of the Johns Hopkins Office of Sustainability. "It's an impressive feat." The UTL building contains 20 high-tech lab spaces and classrooms for
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/14/macaulay-hall-renovation/
 $30M renovation of JHU's Macaulay Hall gets under way | Hub
Hub staff report
Campus construction $30M renovation of JHU's Macaulay Hall gets under way Project will transform largely vacated building into four floors of research facilities Image caption: Macaulay Hall on Johns Hopkins University's Homewood campus. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Hub staff report / Published Nov 14, 2016 A major renovation of Macaulay Hall is expected to turn the outdated, largely vacated building on Johns Hopkins University's Homewood campus into four floors of state-of-the-art research facilities for the university's Krieger School of Arts and Sciences. Image caption: The original construction of Macaulay Hall in 1964 Image credit: Sheridan Libraries Construction is slated to begin in early November with demolition work inside the building. The building core and shell and a portion of the laboratory and support space will then undergo a complete renovation and will be ready for use in the summer of 2018. A future second phase of
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/facilities/articles/
 Facilities | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Facilities History on the move in D.C. Published Sept 27, 2023 Tracing the journey of Johns Hopkins' piece of the Berlin Wall from Germany to its new home at the Hopkins Bloomberg Center Construction Design, construction firms for Henrietta Lacks building named Published Feb 24, 2022 The East Baltimore building project, expected to be completed in 2024, will be designed and managed by local and/or minority-owned businesses Lighting up Charles Street Published June 30, 2021 JHU and the Charles Village Civic Association recently celebrated a milestone: flipping the switch on an eagerly awaited lighted sign in the median at St. Paul and 33rd streets Facilities SNF Agora Institute building plans unveiled Published Sept 19, 2019 Architects at Renzo Piano Building Workshop envision 'open, accessible, transparent' building that can host conferences, speakers, art exhibitions, community events A first glimpse at plans for 'Hopkins D.C.' Published July 11, 2019 Preliminary
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/05/hopkins-hospitals-among-fifty-greenest/
3 Johns Hopkins-affiliated hospitals included on list of 50 greenest in U.S. | Hub
Hub staff report
3 Johns Hopkins-affiliated hospitals included on list of 50 greenest in U.S. By Hub staff report / Published Nov 5, 2015 Three Johns Hopkins hospitals are included on a list of the 50 greenest hospitals in America for 2015 published by Becker's Hospital Review. The publication recognized hospitals that "have taken on the responsibility of being a beacon of health in their respective communities by reducing their environmental footprint." The Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore was named for its eco-friendly improvements. The hospital installed LED lighting in 33 of its operating rooms, installed 65,000 square feet of green roofing, sold 2,000 reusable cups with free water refills, and segregated 13 separate waste streams for recycling, according to Becker's. Maryland Hospitals for a Healthy Environment awarded Johns Hopkins Hospital an environmental "Trailblazer" award for its 2015 pilot program for bio-decontaminating more than $90,000 worth of supplies using vaporized hydrogen peroxide. The
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/04/21/hopkins-green-colleges-guide/
Johns Hopkins recognized for commitment to environment, sustainability | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins recognized for commitment to environment, sustainability 'Princeton Review' includes JHU in its annual 'Green Colleges Guide' By Hub staff report / Published April 21, 2014 Johns Hopkins is among the 332 most environmentally responsible colleges in the U.S. and Canada, according to The Princeton Review, which published its annual "Green Colleges Guide last week. The free guide can be downloaded on The Princeton Review's website. The guide attempts to measure a school's commitment to the environment and to sustainability. Of Johns Hopkins, the guide says: Lauded as one of the most exceptional research universities in the nation, it's no surprise that Johns Hopkins University has found some innovative ways to improve campus sustainability. The student group, SHIP—the Sustainable Hopkins Infrastructure Program—has helped improve building and operational efficiency in projects ranging from rain gardens to updating all campus light poles to LEDs. The Office of Sustainability hosts a Sustainability
http://hub.jhu.edu/2013/11/04/real-food-challenge
 Johns Hopkins pledges commitment to local, sustainable food sources | Hub
Jill Rosen
Johns Hopkins pledges commitment to local, sustainable food sources Daniels signs Real Food Challenge at student-organized 100 Mile Meal Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels signed the Real Food Challenge on Friday evening at the 100 Mile Meal, a campus event featuring an all-local meal planned and prepared by students. The event was organized by Real Food Hopkins, a student group led by seniors Raychel Santo (left) and Emily Nink (right). Credit: James VanRensselaer/Homewood Photography By Jill Rosen / Published Nov 4, 2013 At least 35 percent of Johns Hopkins University food purchases will be local, sustainable, humane and fair-trade by 2020, Johns Hopkins University has pledged. With this commitment, Johns Hopkins not only becomes one of the largest universities in the country to accept the Real Food Challenge, it exceeds the challenge's recommended goal of 20 percent. "This is a significant investment, not just in the health of our
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/dining/articles/
 Dining | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Dining Sustainability Hopkins Dining partners with sustainable farmers Published Oct 16, 2023 Strong Roots 9 co-founders Matthew and Tia Raiford are spicing up the menu at Hopkins while also supporting the university's push for more environmentally conscious dining Changing hearts, minds, and stomachs Published Spring 2023 SAIS alumni Téa Ivanovic and Peter Schechter founded Immigrant Food to defend the vision of America as an immigrant nation / Johns Hopkins Magazine Voices The dish on JHU Dining Published March 8, 2023 Hamilton Goss, Hopkins' inaugural director of culinary innovation, reflects on the past year of Hopkins Dining's self-operated model Delish Hopkins diners get a taste of something new Published Aug 23, 2022 Under the new university-operated dining model, diners will enjoy enhanced menu options, upgraded spaces, and operational decisions that center on the dining experience Dining University will self-operate campus dining services at Homewood, Peabody Published Feb 2, 2021
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/food/articles/
 Food | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Food Fact or fiction? Experts take on top food myths Published Spring 2023 Navigating today's conflicting nutrition advice can be confusing. Johns Hopkins Magazine turned to a panel of Hopkins experts for the truth—the science-backed, evidence-based, fact-checked truth—behind some common food myths. / Johns Hopkins Magazine Changing hearts, minds, and stomachs Published Spring 2023 SAIS alumni Téa Ivanovic and Peter Schechter founded Immigrant Food to defend the vision of America as an immigrant nation / Johns Hopkins Magazine A legacy of Southern delicacies Published Spring 2023 Johns Hopkins' Special Collections acquires first-edition copy of What Mrs. Fisher Knows About Old Southern Cooking, a cookbook believed to be only the second one authored by a Black woman in the United States / Johns Hopkins Magazine Crazy Legs is still hungry Published Spring 2023 Competitive eater Crazy Legs Conti has yet to max out on gross out / Johns Hopkins
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/09/20/best-colleges-dining/
Fine dining: Survey says JHU offers one of nation's best college dining experiences | Hub
Hub staff report
Fine dining: Survey says JHU offers one of nation's best college dining experiences By Hub staff report / Published Sept 20, 2013 Not only is Johns Hopkins among the best places to get an education in the nation; it also offers one of the best college dining experiences, according to a list published today by The Daily Meal. Johns Hopkins ranks 42nd on the website's list of the "Best Colleges for Food" for 2013 and is praised for its social responsibility—"cage-free eggs, hormone-free milk, locally grown produce, and biodegradable products"—and for its menu offerings. "Serving manicotti puttanesca with a side salad, house-smoked beef brisket sandwich, Texas-style French toast, oven-roasted meatloaf with honey carrots and steamed peas, and a Southwestern barbecue burger, Hopkins has discovered the dining preferences of the student body and catered exactly to their liking," The Daily Meal says of JHU. "This dining program is entirely nut-free, trans-fat-free,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/09/17/blue-jay-batter-ice-cream/
Scoop: New Johns Hopkins-inspired ice cream, Blue Jay Batter, makes it debut | Hub
Hub staff report
Scoop: New Johns Hopkins-inspired ice cream, Blue Jay Batter, makes it debut Blueberry cheesecake flavor created by Dominion Ice Cream By Hub staff report / Published Sept 17, 2013 It's Batter up on the Upper Quad today as a new Johns Hopkins-themed ice cream flavor, Blue Jay Batter, makes its debut. Image caption: Mmmmmm, Blue Jay Batter. Here's the scoop: the flavor was developed by Dominion Ice Cream in partnership with the Hopkins Organization for Programming. Dominion's mixologists gave Blue Jay Batter an almost-JHU-blue hue and a blueberry cheesecake flavor. We're thinking cake batter meets blueberries, and we think that sounds spectacular. Find out for yourself today at 2 p.m. on the Upper Quad as the HOP hands out free samples (and t-shirts). Or visit Dominion—famous for its vegetable flavors, including spinach, sweet potato, cucumber, and red cabbge—at 3215 N. Charles St. Posted in Student Life Share on X Share
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/10/10/chef-irena-stein/
A glimpse inside the culinary mind behind JHU's trio of A-list eateries | Hub
Hub staff report
A glimpse inside the culinary mind behind JHU's trio of A-list eateries Irena Stein brings healthy to Homewood with Azafrán, Alkimia, Acanto By Hub staff report / Published Oct 10, 2013 Azafrán, Alkimia, and Acanto are cafés, not classrooms, and Irena Stein is a chef, not a professor. Image caption: Irena Stein Image credit: David Colwell for Baltimore Magazine But the October issue of Baltimore Magazine highlights that Stein, the culinary mind behind Homewood's trio of A-list eateries, is a teacher in her own right, introducing "a more European sensibility" to the eating habits of faculty, staff, students, and visitors (all three cafés are open to the public). Stein serves up all-natural meals and snacks low in salt, sugar, and fat, and in smaller portions that won't send everyone back to the lab or classroom feeling bloated and logy after lunch. "For me, to feed people all-natural, homemade food is
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/07/17/us-news-hospital-rankings/
Johns Hopkins Hospital ranked among top hospitals by 'U.S. News' | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins Hospital ranked among top hospitals by 'U.S. News' JHH ranks No. 3 in the nation and among the top five in 10 specialties By Hub staff report / Published July 17, 2014 The Johns Hopkins Hospital ranked in the top five in 10 specialties and No. 3 overall in the nation in the annual U.S. News & World Report ranking of U.S. hospitals. In the magazine's ranking of hospitals at the state level, the hospital was named first in all specialties in Maryland and No. 1 in all specialties in Baltimore. Members of Johns Hopkins leadership credit the employees for this acknowledgement. "It is the people who make The Johns Hopkins Hospital one of the top in the nation," said Ronald R. Peterson, president of The Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System and executive vice president of Johns Hopkins Medicine. "It is certainly gratifying to know that ¬U.S.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/21/us-news-annual-hospital-rankings/
Johns Hopkins Hospital ranked among nation's best hospitals by 'U.S. News' | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins Hospital ranked among nation's best hospitals by 'U.S. News' Hopkins ranks No. 3 overall, among top 5 in nine specialty areas Image caption: The Johns Hopkins Hospital By Hub staff report / Published July 21, 2015 The Johns Hopkins Hospital ranks in the top five in nine specialties and No. 3 overall in the nation out of more than 4,700 hospitals in the annual U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals list, which was released today. In the U.S. News rankings of 16 specialty areas, Johns Hopkins is No. 1 in Rheumatology; No. 3 in Ear, Nose & Throat; No. 3 in Neurology & Neurosurgery; No. 3 in Ophthalmology; No. 3 in Psychiatry; No. 4 in Urology; No. 5 in Diabetes & Endocrinology; No. 5 in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery; and No. 5 in Geriatrics. "We cannot offer excellent care or earn national accolades without the people who
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/02/2017-foreign-affairs-symposium-lineup/
JHU's annual Foreign Affairs Symposium showcases 'alternative viewpoints' | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
JHU's annual Foreign Affairs Symposium showcases 'alternative viewpoints' Novelists Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Junot Díaz among speakers for 2017 spring semester Image caption: Foreign Affairs Symposium speakers include (clockwise from top left): Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Junot Díaz, Aneesh Chopra, Ai Weiwei, Suroosh Alvi, and representatives from the Veterans Writing Project By Saralyn Lyons / Published Feb 2, 2017 The students organizing the 2017 Foreign Affairs Symposium realize that their speaker lineup for the spring semester is considerably subversive. And that's exactly what they were going for this year. On Wednesday, the symposium welcomed Nadya Tolokonnikova—co-founder of the anti-Putin punk rock artist collective Pussy Riot—for a talk on activism and reshaping the future. Also seeJunot Diaz on what it's like to be an immigrant in America/ Longreads The remaining lineup, announced today, includes two novelists, a former high-ranking White House official, a media mogul, and an exhibit by an artist whose work
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/04/05/junot-diaz-american-voces/
Novelist Junot Diaz visits Johns Hopkins to kick off 'American Voces' speaker series | Hub
Bret McCabe
Novelist Junot Diaz visits Johns Hopkins to kick off 'American Voces' speaker series Pulitzer Prize-winning author talks about national identity, language By Bret McCabe / Published April 5, 2013 "Any of you guys come because your teacher told you to come?," asked novelist Junot D&iacute;az at the beginning of his visit to the Homewood campus on March 29. A smattering of hands went up among the students, faculty, and community members who had come to Hodson Hall to hear D&iacute;az, and he smiled and thanked those students for being honest. Image caption: Junot Diaz The Dominican Republic-born, New Jersey-raised D&iacute;az then asked if there were any Dominicans in the audience; a few people politely clapped. When he asked if there was anybody from New Jersey present, an enthusiastic response ensued. He shook his head a little bit in disbelief. "I can't believe Jersey made more noise," he deadpanned, drawing the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/07/30/adichie-americanah-pratt/
In 'Americanah,' Adichie explores how we talk (and don't talk) about race | Hub
Bret McCabe
In 'Americanah,' Adichie explores how we talk (and don't talk) about race Writing Seminars graduate paints rich picture of immigrant experience By Bret McCabe / Published July 30, 2013 Ifemelu, a young woman from Lagos, Nigeria, learns a few things about herself in the course of living and studying in America. For instance: Black girls from Africa don't wear tight shirts. Also: Black girls from Africa who wear their hair in braids won't get a job. These ostensible facts are told to her by friends and strangers and said with such common-sense certainty that Ifemelu initially wonders why she didn't know such things herself, since she is usually the black girl from Africa that people are referring to without coming out and just saying so. Sometimes these thoughts that people share with her are just plain odd: only black women who aren't from Africa wear tight shirts? And sometimes these
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/02/nadya-tolokonnikova-fas-symposium/
What next? Analyze and mobilize, Russian activist and Pussy Riot co-founder says | Hub
Bret McCabe
Foreign Affairs Symposium What next? Analyze and mobilize, Russian activist and Pussy Riot co-founder says Nadya Tolokonnikova kicks off Johns Hopkins University's Foreign Affairs Symposium Image caption: Russian activist and Pussy Riot co-founder Nadya Tolokonnikova speaks at JHU's Foreign Affairs Symposium. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Bret McCabe / Published Feb 2, 2017 Survive and advance. If there was a single message delivered by Nadya Tolokonnikova—artist, social activist, and co-founder of the Russian punk/protest group Pussy Riot—on Wednesday night, it was that if a citizen finds him or herself living under an authoritarian regime and wishes to resist or change it, don't panic. Acknowledge and respect the forces that might have created an opportunity for, say, a blustery oligarch to rise to power, then take the time to engage in radical political analyzing in order to figure out what to do next. "We need a class-based movement
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/08/hopkins-fundraising-2016/
Johns Hopkins ranks fourth among U.S. universities in fundraising in 2016 | Hub
Hub staff report
Philanthropy Johns Hopkins ranks fourth among U.S. universities in fundraising in 2016 By Hub staff report / Published Feb 8, 2017 Johns Hopkins University ranked fourth in the nation in fundraising in 2016, receiving $657 million in philanthropic contributions, according to the Council for Aid to Education's annual Voluntary Support of Education survey, which was released Tuesday. Johns Hopkins, which is currently in the midst of the $5 billion Rising to the Challenge campaign, has ranked among the top six in fundraising in each of the past four years. "It is this amazing blend of incredibly generous gifts and a growing and vibrant base of support that is truly helping to propel Hopkins on its journey." Fritz SchroederVice president for development and alumni relations The Rising campaign—which was publicly announced in May 2013 and is expected to run through June 2018—focuses on increasing support for the faculty, clinicians, and students
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/15/jhu-forums-race-america-panel-intersectionality-identity/
JHU Forums on Race in America panel to focus on intersectionality, identity | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU Forums on Race in America panel to focus on intersectionality, identity Image caption: JHU Forums on Race in America welcomes (clockwise from top left): Laila Alawa, Payton Head, Mo Speller, and Monica Yorkman By Hub staff report / Published Feb 15, 2017 Intersecting dimensions of identity will be the subject of the next event in the JHU Forums on Race in America series, which will take place at 7 p.m. on March 7 at Johns Hopkins University's Shriver Hall. Norma Day-Vines, a professor in the School of Education, will moderate a discussion with four panelists. She says that issues of race and representation "have become far more noxious, complex, and differentiated" in the second decade of the 21st century. "In fact," she says, "we no longer discuss race as an isolated construct, because during more contemporary times, people are impacted by multiple overlapping social identities that include but are
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/29/jhu-forums-on-race-panel-discussion/
 Johns Hopkins panelists focus on social justice movements, then and now | Hub
Taylor Jade Powell
Race in America Johns Hopkins panelists focus on social justice movements, then and now Activists, scholars take part in sixth event in JHU Forums on Race in America series Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Taylor Jade Powell / Published Sept 29, 2016 Critical citizenship, Black Lives Matter, and the history of anti-racist activism and politics were among the topics of conversation on Tuesday evening during a JHU Forums on Race in America panel discussion, which took place in Shriver Hall on the university's Homewood campus. The event was the sixth installment of the series, which began in April 2014 as an effort to raise awareness on racism, diversity, and social justice in Baltimore and beyond. The panel featured writer and historian Robin D.G. Kelley, professor of U.S. history at University of California, Los Angeles; Salamishah Tillet , activist and associate professor of English and Africana studies at
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/01/latinos-in-america-post-election/
 Panelists explore Latino identity, challenges in post-election America | Hub
Katie Pearce
Race in America Panelists explore Latino identity, challenges in post-election America Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Dec 1, 2016 How are Latinos in America feeling after the election? A panel of professionals who serve Latino populations convened last night at Johns Hopkins University to probe that question, along with the broader questions of the ambiguous yet united Latino identity. "The Latino identity is an American-imposed ideal. When you leave the U.S., there's no such thing as 'Latino' or 'Hispanic.'" Ileana Gonzalez, JHU School of Education The panelists—four from Johns Hopkins, along with journalist Ray Suarez and marketing CEO Javier von Westphalen,—unilaterally expressed concern over Donald Trump's win. "Will 'stunned' be enough of an answer?" Suarez said of his immediate reaction to the Nov. 8 results. "I was as surprised as Donald Trump." The country, he predicted, is "going to spend the next 20-plus
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/election-2016/articles/
 Election 2016 | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Election 2016 Reproductive health Preterm births among U.S. Latinas increased after 2016 election Published July 22, 2019 In the nine months following the election, 3.5% more preterm births occurred among Latinas than expected, suggesting link between election and maternal stress Politics Flight of the working class Published Aug 1, 2017 Study: Shift away from Democratic Party affiliation among blue-collar voters set stage for Trump's victory Race in America Latinos post-election Published Dec 1, 2016 Panelists explore Latino identity, challenges, opportunities as part of Race in America series Election 2016 How the polls got it wrong Published Nov 30, 2016 A conversation with Clifford Young, a professorial lecturer at SAIS who helps oversee polling at global market research firm Ipsos MSE Symposium 'I reject the idea that we are divided' Published Nov 18, 2016 Vermont senator speaks at Hopkins a week after polarizing election Election 2016 Trump's win, the
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/social-justice/articles/
 Social justice | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Social justice Voices Justice for all? Published June 7, 2023 Political scientist and sociologist Vesla Weaver listens to the voices of people whose experience of democracy, citizenship, and government is completely different from that of those not living under police surveillance Engineering for social change Published Nov 4, 2022 In her 'Social Justice for Engineers' course, alum Sarah Hemminger teaches Johns Hopkins students about how thoughtful design can address social ills Center for Talented Youth CTY's new social justice courses empower students to spark change Published Aug 23, 2021 The curriculum for academically advanced pre-college learners is part of an overarching antiracism initiative launched by the center A carceral crisis Published Oct 15, 2020 A new report published by Johns Hopkins provides recommendations for preventing the spread of COVID-19 in the criminal justice system Hopkins 'white coats' gather for black lives Published June 5, 2020 Health care workers
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/10/bloomberg-future-of-public-health-event/
Discussion on future of public health explores rise of pandemics, mental illness in prisons, social justice movements | Hub
Katie Pearce
Discussion on future of public health explores rise of pandemics, mental illness in prisons, social justice movements Bloomberg School event features journalists Sonia Shah, Laura Sullivan, Yamiche Alcindor By Katie Pearce / Published June 10, 2016 "Well, that was terrifying," said veteran health care reporter Julie Rovner. Her reaction came in response to author Sonia Shah's presentation Thursday on worldwide pandemics and the ways humans actively contribute to their spread. Shah was one of three acclaimed writers welcomed to the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health for a forum titled What's Next?: The Future of Public Health, which Rovner moderated. Image caption: Sonia Shah Shah noted that people tend to have one of two reactions to a rising threat of an infectious disease: "We either freak out completely," she said, "or we deny it." To make her point, Shah compared a recent dengue fever outbreak in Florida—where people made
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/10/health-and-humanity-q-and-a-karen-kruse-thomas/
Health and humanity: New book chronicles half a century of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health | Hub
Greg Rienzi
Health and humanity: New book chronicles half a century of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health Historian Karen Kruse Thomas writes about the school's history from 1935 to 1985 Image caption: Carl Taylor in the field in India in the late 1950s Credit: Alan Mason Chesney Archives of the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions By Greg Rienzi / Published June 10, 2016 In war, humans inevitably fashion novel ways to annihilate one another. But out of conflict, so too often come new methods and measures to preserve life. During World War II, the U.S. government mobilized an army of health professionals to protect both military and civilian populations from deadly agents such as poison gas, malaria, syphilis, and the dawn of weapons of mass destruction. The oddest of bedfellows, public health scientists and the military, not coincidently share a common parlance—both wage campaigns, check logistics, and deploy units on
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/zika-virus/articles
 Zika virus | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Zika virus Photo feature Zika's other children Published Oct 12, 2017 A powerful look at the families—and siblings—who carry the weight of Brazil's Zika epidemic Zika virus Economic impact of Zika outbreak could exceed $18B in Latin America, Caribbean Published May 8, 2017 Carey School researchers conduct rapid assessment analysis based on existing data on incidence, transmission of virus linked to birth defects Zika virus Study: Zika outbreak in U.S. could come with high costs Published May 4, 2017 Researchers use computer models to estimate the potential impact of outbreak based on various epidemic sizes Fetal health Zika may cause miscarriages Published Feb 21, 2017 In mouse study, exposure to virus led to higher rates of miscarriages, babies born with thin brain tissue, brain inflammation Zika virus New evidence links Zika, Guillain-Barré Published Oct 5, 2016 Johns Hopkins neurologist collaborates with scientists in Colombia to document biological, viral
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/08/genetically-modified-mosquitoes-survey/
Florida residents oppose use of genetically modified mosquitoes to curb population | Hub
Barbara Benham
Florida residents oppose use of genetically modified mosquitoes to curb population Johns Hopkins survey cites concerns over damage to ecosystem By Barbara Benham / Published June 8, 2016 A small survey of residents of a Florida Keys neighborhood finds a lack of support for the proposed insect control method of releasing genetically modified mosquitoes, according to new research from former and current students at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. The findings, published last month in PLOS Currents Outbreaks, suggest that people's attitudes toward this new mosquito control method may be tied to their concerns about risks of contracting diseases including dengue, chikungunya, and Zika from the insects. The researchers say that people who do not feel that they are at risk from mosquito-borne diseases or who don't believe that mosquitoes are a nuisance express greater discomfort with the idea of the modified mosquitoes. "Our research provides a
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/04/zika-microcephaly-link-research
 Zika virus kills cells involved in fetal brain development, study shows | Hub
Hub staff report
Research Zika virus kills cells involved in fetal brain development, study shows Johns Hopkins researchers contribute to study showing likely biological link between Zika virus, microcephaly Video: Florida State University By Hub staff report / Published March 4, 2016 A team of researchers have discovered what appears to be a significant biological link between Zika virus and microcephaly, a birth defect linked to abnormally small head size and stunted brain development in newborns. Image caption: Researchers Guo-li Ming (left) and Hongjun Song from JHU's Institute for Cell Engineering Image credit: Johns Hopkins Medicine Working with lab-grown human stem cells, the scientists found that the Zika virus selectively infects cells that form the brain's cortex, or outer layer, making these cells more likely to die and less likely to divide normally and make new brain cells. The study suggests these highly-susceptible cells could be used to screen for drugs that protect
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/04/zika-microcephaly-brain-cell-study
 Maternal health expert: New study 'incredibly important' to understanding of Zika virus, how it affects infants | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Global health Maternal health expert: New study 'incredibly important' to understanding of Zika virus, how it affects infants By Saralyn Lyons / Published March 4, 2016 Researchers at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and two other schools published a study today that offers compelling evidence of a biological link between Zika virus and microcephaly and could give scientists key insights into how to treat the virus. The study does not establish a definitive causal link, experts note, but it does connect Zika virus to cell abnormalities. Though microcephaly can be caused by a number of genetic, viral, and environmental factors, the abnormal cellular behavior seen in the study was produced solely by the Zika virus, researchers say. "I think the study is going to be incredibly important to the understanding of how microcephaly develops," says Jeanne Sheffield, director of the Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine at JHU's School of Medicine
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/19/link-between-zika-microcephaly
 Strong links between Zika virus, birth defects examined | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Strong links between Zika virus, birth defects examined Public health experts gather at Johns Hopkins to present emerging evidence, evaluate response Image caption: Thomas Quinn, director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Global Health, discusses the spread of Zika throughout Central and South America Credit: Larry Canner By Saralyn Lyons / Published Feb 19, 2016 Experts in epidemiology and virology gathered Wednesday at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health to discuss Zika virus response in Central and South America and the evidence linking the disease to the abnormally high incidents of microcephaly in Brazil. The panelists emphasized how little is known of the virus. Colonel Stephen Thomas from the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research estimated that whereas a PubMed search for Dengue virus would return multiple thousands of returns, a Zika virus search would only return one hundred or so research articles, many of which had been
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/microcephaly/articles/
 Microcephaly | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Microcephaly Public health Strong links shown between Zika, birth defects Published Feb 19, 2016 Experts present emerging evidence, evaluate response at School of Public Health symposium
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/stem-cell-research/articles/
 Stem cell research | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Stem cell research Johns Hopkins School of Medicine announces new partnership to advance precision medicine Published Oct 22, 2019 Collaboration between the School of Medicine, Bloomberg Philanthropies, and the New York Stem Cell Foundation Research Institute will provide unmatched scope of resources and expertise In study, transplanted brain stem cells survive without anti-rejection drugs Published Oct 2, 2019 By exploiting a feature of the immune system, researchers potentially open the door for stem cell transplants to repair the brain Pathology Stem cell signal drives new bone building, study finds Published Jan 8, 2019 The discovery is the first step in developing a stem cell therapy to help patients recover from bone fractures, spinal fusion, and osteoporosis Nanobiotechnology Stem cells shape up Published Aug 16, 2018 Hopkins bioengineers borrow a process from the electronics industry to discover a factor in stem cell growth: cellular pressure Biomedical engineering Facing the
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/zika-virus/articles/
 Zika virus | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Zika virus Photo feature Zika's other children Published Oct 12, 2017 A powerful look at the families—and siblings—who carry the weight of Brazil's Zika epidemic Zika virus Economic impact of Zika outbreak could exceed $18B in Latin America, Caribbean Published May 8, 2017 Carey School researchers conduct rapid assessment analysis based on existing data on incidence, transmission of virus linked to birth defects Zika virus Study: Zika outbreak in U.S. could come with high costs Published May 4, 2017 Researchers use computer models to estimate the potential impact of outbreak based on various epidemic sizes Fetal health Zika may cause miscarriages Published Feb 21, 2017 In mouse study, exposure to virus led to higher rates of miscarriages, babies born with thin brain tissue, brain inflammation Zika virus New evidence links Zika, Guillain-Barré Published Oct 5, 2016 Johns Hopkins neurologist collaborates with scientists in Colombia to document biological, viral
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/01/29/zika-virus-public-health-expert/
Zika virus: What do we know about it, and how can it be contained? | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Q+A Zika virus: What do we know about it, and how can it be contained? Johns Hopkins expert Anna Durbin discusses risks, prevention Image caption: Close up of yellow fever mosquito, or Aedes aegypti Credit: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention By Saralyn Lyons / Published Jan 29, 2016 A recent outbreak of Zika virus in Brazil is causing alarm throughout the Americas, with health officials warning Thursday that the disease is "spreading explosively." The World Health Organization (WHO) will convene an emergency meeting Monday to address the problem, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have issued travel alerts for people visiting Brazil and other endemic areas. Much of the concern about the virus stems from its apparent link to microcephaly, a birth defect wherein an infant's head is smaller than normal, often because the brain is undersized and may not have developed properly. Symptoms of the virus
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/04/sexually-transmitted-zika-virus/
Zika virus: Expert discusses its evolution and the challenges of developing effective treatments | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Q+A Zika virus: Expert discusses its evolution and the challenges of developing effective treatments Johns Hopkins molecular microbiologist Andrew Pekosz says recent case involving sexual transmission of virus 'not surprising' Image caption: A transmission electron micrograph (TEM) of Zika virus Credit: CDC/Cynthia Goldsmith By Saralyn Lyons / Published Feb 4, 2016 A recent case of sexually transmitted Zika virus in Texas has raised new concerns that the mosquito-borne disease, believed to be linked to microcephaly and other birth defects, could be widely transmitted through sexual contact. Earlier this week, the World Health Organization said that the Zika virus and its suspected complications in newborns constitutes a public health emergency of international concern. Image caption: Andrew Pekosz For insight on Zika transmission and what the Texas case means for the safety of pregnant women in endemic regions, the Hub spoke with molecular microbiologist Andrew Pekosz, director of the Center for Emerging
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/19/link-between-zika-microcephaly/
Strong links between Zika virus, birth defects examined | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Strong links between Zika virus, birth defects examined Public health experts gather at Johns Hopkins to present emerging evidence, evaluate response Image caption: Thomas Quinn, director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Global Health, discusses the spread of Zika throughout Central and South America Credit: Larry Canner By Saralyn Lyons / Published Feb 19, 2016 Experts in epidemiology and virology gathered Wednesday at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health to discuss Zika virus response in Central and South America and the evidence linking the disease to the abnormally high incidents of microcephaly in Brazil. The panelists emphasized how little is known of the virus. Colonel Stephen Thomas from the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research estimated that whereas a PubMed search for Dengue virus would return multiple thousands of returns, a Zika virus search would only return one hundred or so research articles, many of which had been
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/25/zika-virus-whats-next/
Zika virus: Questions remain about transmission, prevention | Hub
Hub staff report
Zika virus: Questions remain about transmission, prevention By Hub staff report / Published Feb 25, 2016 Experts gathered last week at a Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health symposium to address the Zika virus, explore emerging evidence, and evaluate the public health response. Presenters focused in particular on evidence that Zika virus is linked to birth defects, a connection supported by strong anecdotal evidence. But a number of questions remain about the nature of the virus, how it spreads, and how to quell the current outbreak. Below is a closer look at some of what the experts had to say last week. How fast can we develop an effective vaccine? Steve Whitehead from the Laboratory of Infectious Diseases at the National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Disease presented the standard pathway for vaccine development, which includes evaluating animal test models, preparing materials, and conducting three phases of human testing
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/29/how-to-prevent-zika-virus-medical-expert/
How to protect yourself from Zika virus while traveling to affected areas | Hub
Hub staff report
How to protect yourself from Zika virus while traveling to affected areas Video: Hopkins Medicine By Hub staff report / Published Feb 29, 2016 Zika virus has emerged as a major health concern in some parts of the world, particularly in South America and Central America, prompting the World Health Organization to declare a "public health emergency of international concern" earlier this month. So how can people traveling to Zika-affected areas and other warmer climates protect themselves from the mosquito-borne virus? The key, according to Johns Hopkins Medicine expert Crystal Aguh, is to keep the mosquitoes away. Experts recommend: Clothing Wear long pants and long-sleeved shirts Wear clothing treated with permethrin Insect repellant Apply Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-approved insect repellent to areas of exposed skin. Mosquito repellents containing DEET are considered the most effective. Insect repellents that contain ingredients such as oil of citronella, picaridin and oil of lemon eucalyptus
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/04/zika-microcephaly-brain-cell-study/
Maternal health expert: New study 'incredibly important' to understanding of Zika virus, how it affects infants | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Global health Maternal health expert: New study 'incredibly important' to understanding of Zika virus, how it affects infants By Saralyn Lyons / Published March 4, 2016 Researchers at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and two other schools published a study today that offers compelling evidence of a biological link between Zika virus and microcephaly and could give scientists key insights into how to treat the virus. The study does not establish a definitive causal link, experts note, but it does connect Zika virus to cell abnormalities. Though microcephaly can be caused by a number of genetic, viral, and environmental factors, the abnormal cellular behavior seen in the study was produced solely by the Zika virus, researchers say. "I think the study is going to be incredibly important to the understanding of how microcephaly develops," says Jeanne Sheffield, director of the Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine at JHU's School of Medicine
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/04/zika-microcephaly-link-research/
Zika virus kills cells involved in fetal brain development, study shows | Hub
Hub staff report
Research Zika virus kills cells involved in fetal brain development, study shows Johns Hopkins researchers contribute to study showing likely biological link between Zika virus, microcephaly Video: Florida State University By Hub staff report / Published March 4, 2016 A team of researchers have discovered what appears to be a significant biological link between Zika virus and microcephaly, a birth defect linked to abnormally small head size and stunted brain development in newborns. Image caption: Researchers Guo-li Ming (left) and Hongjun Song from JHU's Institute for Cell Engineering Image credit: Johns Hopkins Medicine Working with lab-grown human stem cells, the scientists found that the Zika virus selectively infects cells that form the brain's cortex, or outer layer, making these cells more likely to die and less likely to divide normally and make new brain cells. The study suggests these highly-susceptible cells could be used to screen for drugs that protect
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/24/cost-of-zika-infection/
Experts address need for Zika virus funding as mosquito season nears | Hub
Hub staff report
Experts address need for Zika virus funding as mosquito season nears Economic model developed at Johns Hopkins suggests cost of Zika in southern states could exceed $2B By Hub staff report / Published May 24, 2016 A panel of nearly three dozen experts convened Monday at The Johns Hopkins Hospital in a fact-finding effort to understand the financial and human toll of Zika virus infections in the continental United States. Image caption: Maryland Sen. Ben Cardin (center) addresses an expert panel at The Johns Hopkins Hospital on Monday. An economic model done recently by researchers at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health suggests that the cost of medical care and lost productivity from Zika in six southern U.S. states could surpass $2 billion—and that's if only 2 percent of the population in the region becomes infected. The expert panel was convened by Sen. Ben Cardin on the heels
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/30/allan-spradling-american-philosophical-society/
Biologist Allan Spradling elected to American Philosophical Society | Hub
Hub staff report
Biologist Allan Spradling elected to American Philosophical Society He is an adjunct professor in the Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics at JHU's School of Medicine. By Hub staff report / Published June 30, 2016 Image caption: Allan Spradling Johns Hopkins scientist Allan Spradling has been elected as one of 33 new members of the American Philosophical Society, which recognizes academics for extraordinary intellectual accomplishments in their fields of expertise. The newly elected members in 2016 also include Carol Greider, a Nobel laureate and molecular biologist at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Spradling is an investigator at the Carnegie Institution for Science and at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and he is also an adjunct professor in the Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics at JHU's School of Medicine and in the Department of Biology and JHU's Krieger School of Arts and Sciences. In an era in which
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/09/carol-greider-american-philosophical-society
 Hopkins molecular biologist Carol Greider elected to American Philosophical Society | Hub
Hub staff report
Hopkins molecular biologist Carol Greider elected to American Philosophical Society By Hub staff report / Published May 9, 2016 Carol Greider, a Nobel laureate and molecular biologist at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, has been elected to the American Philosophical Society, which recognizes academics for extraordinary intellectual accomplishments in their fields of expertise. She joins five other researchers elected this year from the biological sciences, in addition to 27 from other academic fields as varied as mathematics and the arts. Image caption: Carol Greider Greider is a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins and the Daniel Nathans Professor and Director of the Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics in the Johns Hopkins Institute for Basic Biomedical Sciences. She shared the 2009 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for her discovery in 1984 of telomerase, an enzyme that maintains protective "caps" on the ends of chromosomes. Over the years,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/07/29/3d-printed-bone-for-facial-reconstructive-surgery/
By stimulating the body's own cells, scientists can build new bone from scratch | Hub
Douglas Birch
Biomedical engineering By stimulating the body's own cells, scientists can build new bone from scratch Warren Grayson and his team at Johns Hopkins create ready-to-implant plastic bone that can turn into living tissue for patients undergoing facial reconstructive surgery Image caption: Warren Grayson holds a 3-D printed jawbone Credit: Howard Korn By Douglas Birch / Published July 29, 2016 Close your eyes and try to think of a friend or family member, says Warren Grayson. What do you see in your mind's eye? It's not likely to be his hair or her elbow. "For most people given that exercise, they're going to see the face," says the associate professor of biomedical engineering at Johns Hopkins University. Image caption: Warren Grayson Image credit: Howard Korn Our face is integral to how other people see us and how we see ourselves. If it is disfigured by a genetic disorder, ravaged by cancer,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/10/usaid-zika-challenge-grants/
Four Johns Hopkins research teams win funding to combat Zika virus | Hub
Hub staff report
Four Johns Hopkins research teams win funding to combat Zika virus Projects are among 21 selected for accelerated development in USAID Zika challenge By Hub staff report / Published Aug 10, 2016 Four teams of researchers from Johns Hopkins University—including three from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and another pursuing an idea that originated at a recent Zika hackathon at JHU—will be awarded grants from U.S. Agency for International Development's Combating Zika and Future Threats Grand Challenge, the agency announced today. In what the agency is calling "potentially game-changing solutions to mitigate the spread and impact of the Zika virus," 21 grants totaling $15 million will be awarded for groundbreaking ideas from around the world to both address the current Zika outbreak and improve the ability to prevent, detect, and respond to future infectious disease outbreaks. In just nine weeks, USAID received nearly 900 submissions from across
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/11/emergency-zika-design-challenge-hackathon-results/
 Modified mosquito trap, repellent soap among top designs at Johns Hopkins Zika virus hackathon | Hub
Ann LoLordo
Modified mosquito trap, repellent soap among top designs at Johns Hopkins Zika virus hackathon Credit: Larry Canner By Ann LoLordo / Published April 11, 2016 Mapping a city to detect Zika mosquito hotspots. Fashion accessories infused with a long-acting mosquito repellent. A special soap that keeps mosquitoes away. These are among the winning ideas from a Johns Hopkins University hackathon that drew participants from Baltimore to Brazil looking for ways to help prevent the spread of the Zika virus. Image credit: Larry Canner Johns Hopkins' Center for Bioengineering Innovation and Design and Jhpiego, a global health nonprofit and university affiliate, convened the weekend Emergency Zika Design Challenge with a single, strategic focus: to come up with innovative ideas "to prevent disease through protection from mosquito bites." "This is just the start," said Youseph Yazdi, executive director of CBID and a co-organizer of the hackathon. "Every team had kernels of great
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/11/emergency-zika-design-challenge-hackathon-results/
Modified mosquito trap, repellent soap among top designs at Johns Hopkins Zika virus hackathon | Hub
Ann LoLordo
Modified mosquito trap, repellent soap among top designs at Johns Hopkins Zika virus hackathon Credit: Larry Canner By Ann LoLordo / Published April 11, 2016 Mapping a city to detect Zika mosquito hotspots. Fashion accessories infused with a long-acting mosquito repellent. A special soap that keeps mosquitoes away. These are among the winning ideas from a Johns Hopkins University hackathon that drew participants from Baltimore to Brazil looking for ways to help prevent the spread of the Zika virus. Image credit: Larry Canner Johns Hopkins' Center for Bioengineering Innovation and Design and Jhpiego, a global health nonprofit and university affiliate, convened the weekend Emergency Zika Design Challenge with a single, strategic focus: to come up with innovative ideas "to prevent disease through protection from mosquito bites." "This is just the start," said Youseph Yazdi, executive director of CBID and a co-organizer of the hackathon. "Every team had kernels of great
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/18/runner-fights-zika-baltimore-health-department/
Johns Hopkins runner helps Baltimore chase down mosquitoes that spread Zika | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins runner helps Baltimore chase down mosquitoes that spread Zika Rising senior Lara Gaffney, a public health studies major, completes unpaid internship at city health department By Hub staff report / Published Aug 18, 2016 Image caption: Lara Gaffney Lara Gaffney is used to leading a charge. The rising senior is captain of Johns Hopkins University's nationally ranked women's cross country team, and as a public health studies major she has traveled to South Africa and Uganda to encourage HIV-infected patients to seek treatment. This summer, she took on a mission closer to home: helping the Baltimore City Health Department chase down the mosquitoes that carry the Zika virus. In a recent article published by The Baltimore Sun, Gaffney explains why she spent the summer before her senior year at an unpaid internship in an understaffed public agency. "I knew that because I had spent time in the public
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/24/hopkins-zika-virus-center/
Johns Hopkins launches first-known multidisciplinary Zika virus center in the world | Hub
Kim Polyniak
Global Health Johns Hopkins launches first-known multidisciplinary Zika virus center in the world Center team will provide comprehensive care to patients with mosquito-borne virus, conduct research By Kim Polyniak / Published Aug 24, 2016 As the number of patients with Zika virus grows worldwide, Johns Hopkins Medicine today announced the opening of the new Johns Hopkins Wilmer Zika Center dedicated primarily to caring for patients with the mosquito-borne and sexually transmitted virus. The center is composed of providers and staff from departments and divisions at Johns Hopkins Medicine and the Bloomberg School of Public Health, including epidemiology, infectious diseases, maternal-fetal medicine, ophthalmology, orthopaedics, pediatrics, physiotherapy, psychiatry, and social work. Medical experts from Brazil, a country greatly affected by Zika virus, are also members of the center. "Patients will no longer be required to travel to multiple centers for care relating to Zika virus," says William May, associate professor of ophthalmology
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/22/zika-mini-brains-cortex-3d-print-bioreactor/
Sophisticated 'mini-brains' add to evidence of Zika's toll on fetal cortex | Hub
Shawna Williams
Sophisticated 'mini-brains' add to evidence of Zika's toll on fetal cortex Johns Hopkins researchers confirm key process by which virus causes microcephaly, other damage in developing brains Image caption: A mini-brain infected with Zika virus. The virus is shown in green, vulnerable neural progenitor cells are shown in red, and neurons are shown in blue. Credit: Xuyu Qian/Johns Hopkins Medicine By Shawna Williams / Published April 22, 2016 Studying a new type of lab-grown brain—made with technology first suggested by three high school students—Johns Hopkins researchers have confirmed a key process by which Zika virus causes microcephaly and other damage in fetal brains. Image caption: The SpinΩ bioreactor (green) used to create the conditions for mini-brains to grow. At bottom is a commercially available 12-well lab dish. Image credit: Johns Hopkins Medicine The scientists confirmed that Zika infects specialized stem cells that build the brain's outer layer, the cortex. A
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/12/mini-brains-drug-testing/
'Mini-brains' developed at Johns Hopkins could reshape brain research, drug testing | Hub
Stephanie Desmon
Neuroscience 'Mini-brains' developed at Johns Hopkins could reshape brain research, drug testing Structures derived from human neurons and other cells could allow for better research, reduce animal testing Image caption: Researcher Thomas Hartung believes that tiny mini-brains like this one represent “the future of brain research…less reliance on animals, more reliance on human cell-based models.” Credit: Thomas Hartung/Johns Hopkins By Stephanie Desmon / Published Feb 12, 2016 Researchers at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health have grown tiny, barely visible "mini-brains," balls of human neurons and other cells that mimic some of the brain's structures and functionality. The development of the mini-brains could dramatically change brain research and drug testing, replacing hundreds of thousands of animals used now in neurology labs. Performing research using these three-dimensional mini-brains—which grow and form brain-like structures on their own over the course of eight weeks—should be superior to studying mice and rats
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/29/zika-treament-drug-screening/
Scientists screen existing drugs in hopes of fast-tracking Zika treatment | Hub
Rachel Butch
Scientists screen existing drugs in hopes of fast-tracking Zika treatment Research team identifies three drugs effective enough in lab to warrant further study By Rachel Butch / Published Aug 29, 2016 A specialized drug screen test using lab-grown human cells has revealed two classes of compounds already in the pharmaceutical arsenal that may work against mosquito-borne Zika virus infections, scientists say. Image caption: Zika virus infection in cell death in human forebrain organoids. Image credit: Xuyu Qian, Johns Hopkins University In a summary of their work, published today in Nature Medicine, the investigators say they screened 6,000 existing compounds currently in late-stage clinical trials or already approved for human use for other conditions. The screening process identified several compounds that showed the ability to hinder or halt the progress of the Zika virus in lab-grown human neural cells. The research collaboration includes teams from the Johns Hopkins University School of
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/04/zika-microcephaly-link-research/
 Zika virus kills cells involved in fetal brain development, study shows | Hub
Hub staff report
Research Zika virus kills cells involved in fetal brain development, study shows Johns Hopkins researchers contribute to study showing likely biological link between Zika virus, microcephaly Video: Florida State University By Hub staff report / Published March 4, 2016 A team of researchers have discovered what appears to be a significant biological link between Zika virus and microcephaly, a birth defect linked to abnormally small head size and stunted brain development in newborns. Image caption: Researchers Guo-li Ming (left) and Hongjun Song from JHU's Institute for Cell Engineering Image credit: Johns Hopkins Medicine Working with lab-grown human stem cells, the scientists found that the Zika virus selectively infects cells that form the brain's cortex, or outer layer, making these cells more likely to die and less likely to divide normally and make new brain cells. The study suggests these highly-susceptible cells could be used to screen for drugs that protect
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/05/zika-virus-guillain-barre-syndrome-biological-link/
New evidence supports biological link between Zika virus infection, Guillain-Barré syndrome | Hub
Rachel Butch
New evidence supports biological link between Zika virus infection, Guillain-Barré syndrome Johns Hopkins neurologist collaborates with scientists in Colombia to document biological, viral association By Rachel Butch / Published Oct 5, 2016 In a collaborative effort with scientists at six Colombian hospitals, Johns Hopkins researchers report what they believe to be the strongest biological evidence to date linking Zika virus infection and Guillain-Barré syndrome. Epidemiology data have long suggested a close relationship between rising Zika virus infection rates and instances of Guillain-Barré. The new study's results, published online today in The New England Journal of Medicine, support the correlation with immunologic and viral evidence of Zika infection in a substantial number of people with Guillain-Barré, the investigators say. Guillain-Barré is a very rare but potentially paralyzing disorder of the nervous system that appears days to weeks after infection with viruses or bacteria. A so-called post-infectious immune condition, it occurs when
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/07/black-lives-matter-demonstration-homewood/
Members of JHU community stage silent demonstration in support of Black Lives Matter movement | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Members of JHU community stage silent demonstration in support of Black Lives Matter movement More than 400 participate, linking arms and lining up along Charles Street Credit: Sam Levitan / Homewood Photography By Saralyn Lyons / Published Oct 7, 2016 More than 400 Johns Hopkins students, faculty, and staff linked arms in an unbroken chain that stretched along Charles Street from the East Gate of the university's Homewood campus to Art Museum Drive this afternoon. They stood in silence for 397 seconds—one second for every year since the first documented African slave was brought to the Americas. Video credit: Len Turner The demonstration, in support of the Black Lives Matter movement, aimed to acknowledge the events that have taken place around the country involving violence against African-Americans, organizers said. It was also an acknowledgement of the day-to-day micro- and macro-aggressions affecting minority members of society. "I think it's important to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/09/how-did-trump-win-election-analysis-sheingate/
How Donald Trump won the election, and what the 'experts' missed | Hub
Hub staff report
Q+A How Donald Trump won the election, and what the 'experts' missed Johns Hopkins political scientist Adam Sheingate takes a closer look at Trump's victory Image caption: Donald Trump unveils his child-care policy at an event in Aston, Pennsylvania, on Sept. 13, 2016. Credit: Michael Vadon By Hub staff report / Published Nov 9, 2016 Donald Trump pulled off a stunning election upset on Tuesday night, defying polls that generally agreed he was a considerable underdog and defeating Hillary Clinton to become the 45th president of the United States. Image caption: Adam Sheingate How did Trump do it? For insight and analysis, we reached out to Adam Sheingate, professor and chair of political science at Johns Hopkins University. Sheingate teaches courses on American politics and institutions at the graduate and undergraduate levels and is the author of Building a Business of Politics: The Rise of Political Consulting and the Transformation
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/26/donald-trump-downwardly-mobile-cherlin/
Donald Trump and his appeal among America's 'downwardly mobile' | Hub
Hub staff report
Election 2016 Donald Trump and his appeal among America's 'downwardly mobile' GOP candidate's message likely resonating with those who believe they are worse off than their parents, Johns Hopkins sociologist Andrew Cherlin writes Image caption: A June 2016 Donald Trump rally in Peoria, Arizona. Credit: Gage Skidmore By Hub staff report / Published Aug 26, 2016 Johns Hopkins University sociologist Andrew Cherlin has a theory about why the unconventional—and sometimes inflammatory—Republican candidate for president, Donald Trump, resonates so profoundly with his core group of supporters. It has to do with whether they perceive themselves as upwardly mobile or downwardly mobile, Cherlin argues in an op-ed published Thursday in The New York Times. Image caption: Andrew Cherlin Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Drawing from data collected by a 2014 General Social Survey, Cherlin—a professor of public policy in JHU's Krieger School of Arts and Sciences—examines two sections of
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/02/24/why-white-death-rates-rise/
Why are death rates climbing among middle-aged whites? JHU sociologist has a theory | Hub
Hub staff report
Why are death rates climbing among middle-aged whites? JHU sociologist has a theory By Hub staff report / Published Feb 24, 2016 The death rates among whites between the ages of 45 and 54 have risen since 1999, with the most dramatic increases occurring in less-educated populations, notes Johns Hopkins University sociologist Andrew Cherlin in a recent op-ed for The New York Times. He postulates that the underlying reason for the rise—which has been linked to substance abuse and suicide—is sociological: whites compare themselves to their parents' generation and experience greater pessimism about their own lives as a result. Image caption: Andrew Cherlin In exploring why death rates among whites have risen while death rates for the same age group in African-American and Hispanic populations have decreased over the same time span, Cherlin first turns to reference group theory, a sociological idea suggesting that in order to understand a person's
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/26/andrew-cherlin-what-ive-learned/
The changing face of the American family: A conversation with JHU sociologist Andrew Cherlin | Hub
Rafael Alvarez
The changing face of the American family: A conversation with JHU sociologist Andrew Cherlin Image caption: Johns Hopkins sociologist Andrew Cherlin Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Rafael Alvarez / Published April 26, 2016 Andrew J. Cherlin, a distinguished member of the Johns Hopkins faculty in the Department of Sociology, joined the university in 1976. He served as president of the Population Association of America in 1999 and several years later was awarded a Distinguished Career Award from the American Sociological Association. Last week, he was selected to the 236th class of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. But he began observing the subject that would become his life's work—the American family—in the cradle. The author of The Marriage-Go-Round and a frequent contributor to the op-ed page of The New York Times, Cherlin specializes in the study of marriage, particularly as the institution shapes, and is shaped
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/20/american-academy-arts-sciences-hopkins
 Three from Johns Hopkins elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences | Hub
Hub staff report
Three from Johns Hopkins elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences Andrew Cherlin, Alex Kolodkin, Sanford Greenberg among 213 members of honorary society's 236th class By Hub staff report / Published April 20, 2016 Three members of the Johns Hopkins community—social scientist Andrew J. Cherlin; neuroscientist Alex L. Kolodkin; and Sanford Greenberg, chairman of the Wilmer Eye Institute's Board of Governors—are among 213 new inductees to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The 236th class of the honorary society includes winners of the Pulitzer Prize and the Wolf Prize; MacArthur and Guggenheim fellowships; the Fields Medal; and Grammy and National Book awards. Among the new members are professor and autism spokesperson Temple Grandin; novelist, critic, and poet Colm Tóibín; and Jacqueline Hewitt, the astrophysicist who discovered Einstein rings. A complete list of the 2016 class can be found online. The new class will be inducted at a ceremony
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/10/john-mcaughlin-trump-presidency-commentary/
How world leaders are preparing for a Trump presidency | Hub
Hub staff report
Commentary How world leaders are preparing for a Trump presidency Former acting CIA director John McLaughlin says foreign governments don't know what to expect from Trump, will take 'wait and see' approach By Hub staff report / Published Nov 10, 2016 Ahead of Donald Trump's unexpected victory in the U.S. presidential election on Tuesday, former acting CIA director John McLaughlin shared insights with online news outlet OZY about how foreign governments are preparing for the next U.S. president. Also seeHow world leaders reacted to the election of Donald Trump/ BBC News McLaughlin, a distinguished practitioner in residence at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, D.C., told OZY that world leaders look to the U.S. for leadership and have been puzzled by the bitter—at times bizarre—campaign and the success of a novice politician. "Their planning for a ... Trump victory is inevitably muddled by their simple confusion
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/14/eliot-cohen-election-open-letter/
Commentary: An open letter to those anxious about a Trump presidency | Hub
Hub staff report
Commentary: An open letter to those anxious about a Trump presidency SAIS professor, former State Department official Eliot A. Cohen pens letter for 'The American Interest' By Hub staff report / Published Nov 14, 2016 In the turbulent aftermath of last week's election, Eliot Cohen, a professor of strategic studies at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, D.C., drafted an open letter titled "To An Anxious Friend..." addressing concerns about a Trump presidency. Image caption: Eliot Cohen (Update: Cohen seemed to change his tune significantly on Tuesday, five days after his article was published; more on that in a moment). The letter was published Thursday in The American Interest. In it, Cohen—who previously helped to organize letters signed by foreign policy experts denouncing Trump as unfit for office—calls the election results "dreadful." But he tempers that judgment with three silver linings: First, the checks and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/15/election-results-hopkins-campus-climate/
Johns Hopkins leadership urges tolerance, discussion in wake of contentious presidential election | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins leadership urges tolerance, discussion in wake of contentious presidential election Members of JHU community have reported feeling intimidated, bullied, unwelcome, unsafe By Hub staff report / Published Nov 15, 2016 In the wake of a divisive presidential campaign and election, Johns Hopkins University leaders have heard from students and other members of the university community from across the political spectrum who say they feel intimidated, bullied, and in some cases unsafe. Some have voiced concerns about the repercussions of a contest won on rhetoric that was at times racist, anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant, and misogynistic. Others have reported feeling that they, or their points of view, are unwelcome. "This is a time to show our commitment to doing what we do best: to learn from and with each other, to understand what has happened, and to support one another as we work together to protect the values that matter most."
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/15/john-mclaughlin-best-worst-case-trump/
Best-case and worst-case scenarios for the Trump presidency | Hub
Hub staff report
COMMENTARY Best-case and worst-case scenarios for the Trump presidency SAIS scholar, former acting CIA director John McLaughlin among policy, intelligence experts featured in 'Politico' report By Hub staff report / Published Nov 15, 2016 As President-elect Donald Trump maneuvers to staff his administration, political analysts are scrambling to forecast what the polarizing businessman's presidency will look like. Online magazine Politico asked policy and intelligence experts, including former acting CIA director John McLaughlin, to speculate on best- and worst-case scenarios in a recently published roundup. Image caption: John McLaughlin McLaughlin, a distinguished practitioner-in-residence at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, D.C., predicts: The worst-case scenario would come about in the Trump presidency if he simply turns out to be who he says he is. Just tick through the list of things he's promised and you end up with nuclear weapons spreading, trade wars with countries in
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/17/post-election-faculty-panel/
Experts discuss Donald Trump's win, the white working class, and national identity | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Election 2016 Experts discuss Donald Trump's win, the white working class, and national identity Johns Hopkins faculty panel breaks down the 2016 presidential election and its implications Image caption: Adam Sheingate (left) introduces the panelists at "Election 2016: Reflections and Implications." Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Saralyn Lyons / Published Nov 17, 2016 For Courtland Robinson, the 2016 election was "absolutely and critically" about American identity. "The myth that we have is that we were founded by European migrants seeking religious freedom," the associate professor in the Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health. "We have to understand that this is a population that was founded not just by voluntary migration of predominantly whites from Europe, but by the forced migration of millions of Africans via the Middle Passage, and the secondary forced migration into the Deep South and the dislocation of Native Americans. This country
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/18/bernie-sanders-symposium-hopkins/
Bernie Sanders: 'I reject the idea that we are divided' | Hub
Katie Pearce
MSE Symposium Bernie Sanders: 'I reject the idea that we are divided' In Johns Hopkins appearance, Vermont senator reprises messages of his 2016 presidential campaign, sympathizes with plight of working-class Americans Image caption: Sen. Bernie Sanders spoke to a capacity crowd at Johns Hopkins University's Shriver Hall on Thursday night in an event co-sponsored by the student-run MSE Symposium and Foreign Affairs Symposium. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published Nov 18, 2016 Sen. Bernie Sanders, appearing before a capacity crowd at Johns Hopkins University on Thursday night, touted the ideals of his presidential campaign as the basis for a growing political revolution that will continue even after President-elect Donald Trump assumes the nation's highest office. Nine days after the polarizing outcome of the presidential election, the Vermont independent said he doesn't see the stark divides in America that the media has depicted. "You want
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/11/30/election-polls-trump-what-went-wrong/
How the polls got it wrong: A conversation with an election polling expert | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Election 2016 How the polls got it wrong: A conversation with an election polling expert Cliff Young is a professorial lecturer at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies and helps oversee polling at global market research firm Ipsos Image caption: 2016 U.S. presidential election results by county, shaded according to the winning candidate's percentage of the vote—red for Republican Donald Trump, blue for Democrat Hillary Clinton. Credit: Ali Zifan By Saralyn Lyons / Published Nov 30, 2016 The polls got it wrong. That was one of the immediate takeaways on election night, when Republican Donald Trump—the consensus underdog in the presidential race according to nearly all major public opinion polls and predictions—scored a surprise victory against Democrat Hillary Clinton. Image caption: Clifford Young Though Clinton will win the popular vote—her lead is more than 2.3 million and growing with votes still being counted—the nuances of the Electoral College
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/16/nancy-norris-kniffin-obituary/
Nancy Norris-Kniffin, former director of JHU's MLA program, dies at 77 | Hub
Kate Pipkin
Nancy Norris-Kniffin, former director of JHU's MLA program, dies at 77 By Kate Pipkin / Published Feb 16, 2017 Nancy Norris-Kniffin, director emerita of the Master of Liberal Arts program at Johns Hopkins University's Krieger School of Arts and Sciences, died Feb. 13 of cancer. She was 77. Image caption: Nancy Norris-Kniffin (left) and Binnie Bailey attend a retirement party in 2000 Image credit: Gazette Archives Norris-Kniffin had been teaching in the MLA program when she was named director in 1986, a post she held until 2000. She specialized in Southern literature with particular emphasis on authors William Faulkner and Flannery O'Connor. Other topics for her courses included the American short story, evil in literature, and modern Irish literature. Norris-Kniffin received a bachelor's degree in English from Wellesley College and a doctoral degree in English from the University of Pennsylvania. Alumni and colleagues from the MLA program remember Norris-Kniffin's dedication
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/21/zika-miscarriages-thin-brain-tissue/
Zika may cause miscarriages, thin brain tissue in babies carried to term | Hub
Barbara Benham
Zika may cause miscarriages, thin brain tissue in babies carried to term In mouse study, exposure to Zika virus appeared to affect organization of placenta cells Credit: istock photo By Barbara Benham / Published Feb 21, 2017 In an examination of early pregnancy in mice with complete immune systems, researchers at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health have found that Zika virus appears to create disorganization in the cellular layers of the placenta, which typically protects the fetus from toxins, bacteria, and viruses during pregnancy. Exposure to the virus led to a high percentage of miscarriages and to mouse pups born with thin brain tissue and inflammation in brain cells. By administering Zika virus directly into the reproductive tract of pregnant mice that had intact immune systems, the researchers found that the disorganization in the cells of the placenta could explain how the virus reaches the fetus. The
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/23/free-dna-sequencing-software-detects-cancer/
New gene sequencing tool could aid in early detection, treatment of cancer | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
Biomedical engineering New gene sequencing tool could aid in early detection, treatment of cancer Computational software that evaluates DNA samples will be shared freely online Image caption: Senior author Winston Timp, right, and co-author Rachael E. Workman of Johns Hopkins load a nanopore sequencing device Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Phil Sneiderman / Published Feb 23, 2017 A research team from the United States and Canada has developed and successfully tested new computational software that determines whether a human DNA sample includes an epigenetic add-on linked to cancer and other adverse health conditions. In the Feb. 20 issue of the journal Nature Methods, team members from Johns Hopkins University, the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, and the University of Toronto detailed their promising new method of detecting the presence of an extra mark on DNA called cytosine methylation. Cytosine is one of the four main genetic building
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/06/29/bacterial-colonies-cancer-growth/
Johns Hopkins researchers find link between oral bacteria and cancer risk | Hub
Rachel Butch
Johns Hopkins researchers find link between oral bacteria and cancer risk Normal bacterial colonies in human body connected to presence of mouth and throat cancer By Rachel Butch / Published June 29, 2016 In a sample study, researchers at Johns Hopkins say they have found an association between the makeup of an individual's microbiome and head and neck cancer, a finding that potentially advances the quest for faster and more accurate cancer diagnosis and therapy. In a report on the research published on May 30 in Oncotarget, the scientists say that populations of the human microbiome—the collection of normal bacteria inhabiting people's bodies—can help discriminate between patients with head and neck cancer and healthy individuals. Doctors may be able to use sequencing tools to quickly and accurately screen and diagnose patients based on the bacteria present in their mouths. "One of the goals of our research is to better understand
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/19/tumor-shrink-immunotherapy-skin-cancer/
Immunotherapy drug shrinks tumors in half of patients with rare, virus-linked skin cancer | Hub
Vanessa Wasta
Immunotherapy drug shrinks tumors in half of patients with rare, virus-linked skin cancer By Vanessa Wasta / Published April 19, 2016 In a clinical trial of the immunotherapy drug pembrolizumab, half of 25 patients with a rare type of virus-linked skin cancer experienced substantial tumor shrinkage lasting nearly three times as long, on average, than with conventional chemotherapy. Several patients had no remaining evidence of the disease, known as Merkel cell carcinoma. Image caption: Multispectral immunofluorescence showing the interface between Merkel cell tumor cells (orange) and host immune cells (yellow marks CD8+ lymphocytes, red marks CD68+ macrophages). Cell-surface PD-L1 expression (green) is observed on macrophages, lymphocytes and tumor cells, adjacent to PD-1 expression (white) on lymphocytes. Image credit: Janis Taube, Johns Hopkins Results of the study are published online today in the New England Journal of Medicine. Scientists at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and the Johns Hopkins Kimmel
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/29/cancer-immunotherapy-center-bloomberg-kimmel/
Johns Hopkins launches cancer research center with $125 million from Bloomberg, Kimmel, others | Hub
Hub staff report
Cancer research Johns Hopkins launches cancer research center with $125 million from Bloomberg, Kimmel, others Institute will study immunotherapy, which researchers say has the potential to eventually cure and end all forms of cancer By Hub staff report / Published March 29, 2016 Johns Hopkins will launch an institute devoted to the study of a new and promising approach to cancer treatment, embracing the Obama administration's "moonshot" initiative to cure cancer, an effort led by Vice President Joe Biden. The Bloomberg–Kimmel Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy was founded with two $50 million gifts—one from Michael R. Bloomberg, philanthropist, entrepreneur, and three-term mayor of New York City; the other from philanthropist Sidney Kimmel, founder of Jones Apparel Group. An additional $25 million for the center was contributed by more than a dozen additional supporters. Biden, Bloomberg, and the supporters of this initiative will announce the center's launch today at 12:30 p.m. at
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/07/06/magnolia-honokiol-breast-cancer-obesity/
Can magnolia help break the link between obesity and breast cancer? | Hub
Becky Ham
Flower power? Can magnolia help break the link between obesity and breast cancer? A compound made from the tree's cones shows promise against tumors spurred by hormone closely connected to obesity By Becky Ham / Published July 6, 2016 This article was originally published on Johns Hopkins Medicine's Cancer Matters blog Stand under the glossy green canopy of a southern magnolia in full bloom, and you'll be dazzled by this queen tree's show of hundreds of highly perfumed ivory blossoms, each the size of a teacup. It's a stunning sight, but for centuries, Magnolia grandiflora has been known for more than its pretty face. The tree contains a pharmacopeia of sorts, yielding chemical compounds that have been used to treat everything from anxiety to heart attacks. Dipali Sharma, an associate professor of oncology at Johns Hopkins' Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, thinks it might be time to add certain breast
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/04/01/low-oxygen-stem-cell-cancer-study/
Study sheds light on how cancer stem cells thrive when oxygen is scarce | Hub
Hub staff report
Study sheds light on how cancer stem cells thrive when oxygen is scarce By Hub staff report / Published April 1, 2016 Scientists have known for a while that low oxygen can encourage cancer stem cells to multiply within a tumor. But a research team at Johns Hopkins University recently zeroed in on exactly how that happens. The researchers looked at the similarities between embryonic stem cells and cancer stem cells, ultimately focusing on a specific protein that increases the numbers of cancer stem cells in low-oxygen conditions. The team's findings, published March 21 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, could help clear a major roadblock in cancer treatments, given that cancer cells that thrive in low oxygen are particularly likely to metastasize and resist chemotherapy. "There are still many questions left to answer, but we now know that oxygen-poor environments, like those often found in advanced
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/26/healthy-lifestyle-breast-cancer-risk/
Healthy lifestyle choices can help women overcome genetic breast cancer risk  | Hub
Hub staff report
Healthy lifestyle choices can help women overcome genetic breast cancer risk Study by Johns Hopkins researchers could help improve prevention strategies By Hub staff report / Published May 26, 2016 High risk breast cancer due to family history and genetics can be substantially mitigated by a healthy lifestyle choices, according to new research from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. The study, published today in the journal JAMA Oncology, found that roughly 30 percent of breast cancer cases in white women in the U.S. could be prevented by modifying known risk factors—for example, drinking less alcohol, losing weight, stopping smoking, and not taking hormone replacement therapy. More importantly, a higher proportion of these preventable cases occur among women with genetic and family risk factors. Also seeEven people with breast cancer risk genes can lower risk/ NBC News The researchers found that white women with the genetic and family
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/11/10/chatterjee-named-bloomberg-distinguished-professor
 Nilanjan Chatterjee named Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Julie Messersmith
Nilanjan Chatterjee named Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins Scientist holds appointments in schools of Public Health and Medicine Credit: CHRIS HARTLOVE By Julie Messersmith / Published Nov 10, 2015 Nilanjan Chatterjee has joined Johns Hopkins as a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor in the Bloomberg School of Public Health's Department of Biostatistics and in the Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center in the School of Medicine's Department of Oncology. He joins Johns Hopkins from the National Institutes of Health, where he had served since 2001, most recently as the chief of the Biostatistics Branch of the National Cancer Institute's Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics. Chatterjee is the 16th Bloomberg Distinguished Professor appointed across Johns Hopkins. The professorships are supported by a $350 million gift to the university by Johns Hopkins alumnus, philanthropist and three-term New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. The majority of this gift is dedicated to creating 50
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/24/michael-schatz-genome-sequencing-computer-tool/
A giant leap for genome sequencing as computerized method gives scientists a clearer view of DNA puzzles | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
A giant leap for genome sequencing as computerized method gives scientists a clearer view of DNA puzzles Johns Hopkins computer scientist Michael Schatz leads work on new algorithms for more complete portraits By Arthur Hirsch / Published Oct 24, 2016 Scientists' effort to piece together the genome is taking a significant step forward with a new computerized method that creates more complete and detailed versions of the complex puzzle of life than have ever been produced before. "An analogy of this might be that previous methods for sequencing genomes would give you a black-and-white representation. ... But our new software gives you a full-color representation allowing you to see all the details hidden in the shadows." Michael Schatz, computer scientist "We hope and expect this advance will change how new genomes will be sequenced and studied since it gives such an improved view of what is really there," said Michael
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/05/26/michael-schatz-bloomberg-distinguished-professor/
Computational biologist Michael Schatz named 21st Bloomberg Professor at Johns Hopkins | Hub
Julie Messersmith
Computational biologist Michael Schatz named 21st Bloomberg Professor at Johns Hopkins Schatz is one of the world's foremost experts in solving computational problems in genomics research Image caption: Michael Schatz Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Julie Messersmith / Published May 26, 2016 Michael Schatz, one of the world's foremost experts in solving computational problems in genomics research, has been named a Bloomberg Distinguished Associate Professor at Johns Hopkins University, joining 20 other Bloomberg Professors at the university whose work spans disciplines and aims to address some of the world's most vexing challenges. Schatz will be an associate professor of computational biology, with appointments in the Department of Computer Science at JHU's Whiting School of Engineering and in the Department of Biology at JHU Krieger School of Arts and Sciences. Schatz joins Johns Hopkins from Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory on Long Island in New York, where he was
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/02/health-effects-for-children-sweden-traffic-tax/
Study: Stockholm traffic tax helps kids in Sweden breathe easier | Hub
Patrick Ercolano
Study: Stockholm traffic tax helps kids in Sweden breathe easier Decreases in air pollution lead to dramatic drop in asthma attacks among young children By Patrick Ercolano / Published March 2, 2017 When Stockholm, Sweden introduced a "congestion tax" to discourage driving in the center of town, traffic eased and the pollution level dropped by between 5 and 10 percent. There was one other result that was unexpected, but welcome nonetheless: The rate of asthma attacks among local children decreased by nearly 50 percent, according to a Johns Hopkins University economist's study of the tax and its impact. Image caption: Emilia Simeonova The health improvement in children appeared more gradually than the observed decline in the pollution level, suggesting that the full health benefits from reduced pollution might not occur immediately, says Emilia Simeonova, an assistant professor at JHU's Carey Business School. But whereas the rate of asthma attacks dropped
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/25/fracking-health-migraine-sinus-fatigue/
Study: Fracking associated with migraines, fatigue, chronic nasal and sinus symptoms | Hub
Stephanie Desmon
Study: Fracking associated with migraines, fatigue, chronic nasal and sinus symptoms Johns Hopkins research adds to growing evidence of link between unconventional natural gas wells, health problems By Stephanie Desmon / Published Aug 25, 2016 New research suggests that Pennsylvania residents with the highest exposure to active natural gas wells operated by the hydraulic fracturing—or fracking—industry are nearly twice as likely to suffer from a combination of migraine headaches, chronic nasal and sinus symptoms, and severe fatigue. Researchers from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, reporting online today in the journal Environmental Health Perspectives, say their findings add to a growing body of evidence linking the fracking industry to health problems. "These three health conditions can have debilitating impacts on people's lives," says first author Aaron W. Tustin, a resident physician in the Department of Environmental Health Sciences at the Bloomberg School. "In addition, they cost the health
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/10/12/fracking-pregnancy-risks/
 Johns Hopkins study links fracking to premature births, high-risk pregnancies | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins study links fracking to premature births, high-risk pregnancies Researchers look at nearly 11,000 births in north, central Pennsylvania By Hub staff report / Published Oct 12, 2015 Expectant mothers who live near fracking wells in Pennsylvania face greater risks of premature births and high-risk pregnancies, according to a study from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. The findings, published online recently in the journal Epidemiology, shed light on some of the possible adverse health outcomes associated with fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, a well-stimulation technique that has boomed over the past decade. In Pennsylvania, the fracking industry now operates more than 8,000 active natural gas wells—up from 100 in 2006. "The growth in the fracking industry has gotten way out ahead of our ability to assess what the environmental and, just as importantly, public health impacts are," says study leader Brian S. Schwartz, a professor in the
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/07/18/fracking-asthma-attacks-study/
 Study links fracking industry wells to increased risk of asthma attacks | Hub
Barbara Benham
Environmental health Study links fracking industry wells to increased risk of asthma attacks By Barbara Benham / Published July 18, 2016 People with asthma who live near bigger or larger numbers of active unconventional natural gas wells operated by the fracking industry in Pennsylvania are 1.5 to four times likelier to have asthma attacks than those who live farther away, new research from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health suggests. The findings, published today in JAMA Internal Medicine, add to a growing body of evidence tying the fracking industry to health concerns. Health officials have been concerned about the effect of this type of drilling on air and water quality, as well as the stress of living near a well. Those who lived closer to a large number or bigger active natural gas wells were significantly more likely—1.5 to four times more likely—to suffer asthma attacks. Simply developing
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/environmental-health/
 Environmental health | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Environmental health Environmental health The impact of cigarette butts Published April 22, 2024 Cigarette butts are the most littered item on the planet. Two new studies from the Institute for Global Tobacco Control point to possible solutions. 3 questions EPA phases out PFAS Published April 19, 2024 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency imposes first-ever regulations limiting chemicals known as PFAS, or forever chemicals, in drinking water Environmental health California leads U.S. emissions of little-known greenhouse gas Published April 3, 2024 The state emits more of the common pesticide sulfuryl fluoride than the rest of country combined, a JHU study finds Environmental health Researchers urged to partner to advance environmental justice Published March 12, 2024 Tennessee state Rep. Justin J. Pearson delivers remarks as part of the Department of Environmental Health and Engineering's monthly Grand Rounds series Environmental health Superfood safety Published Feb 21, 2024 Novel chemical analysis by a
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/environmental-health/articles/
 Environmental health | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Environmental health Environmental health The impact of cigarette butts Published April 22, 2024 Cigarette butts are the most littered item on the planet. Two new studies from the Institute for Global Tobacco Control point to possible solutions. 3 questions EPA phases out PFAS Published April 19, 2024 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency imposes first-ever regulations limiting chemicals known as PFAS, or forever chemicals, in drinking water Environmental health California leads U.S. emissions of little-known greenhouse gas Published April 3, 2024 The state emits more of the common pesticide sulfuryl fluoride than the rest of country combined, a JHU study finds Environmental health Researchers urged to partner to advance environmental justice Published March 12, 2024 Tennessee state Rep. Justin J. Pearson delivers remarks as part of the Department of Environmental Health and Engineering's monthly Grand Rounds series Environmental health Superfood safety Published Feb 21, 2024 Novel chemical analysis by a
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/environmental-science/
 Environmental science | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Environmental science Alumni spotlight Citizen scientists in bloom Published Aug 8, 2022 Alum Ikbal Choudhury's nonprofit uses low-cost, low-resource tools to teach children about environmental science Commentary Time to prepare for the next Harvey Published Aug 29, 2017 Hopkins expert Paul Ferraro says leaders must do more to make sure Americans are prepared, safe / Bloomberg View Q+A Expert: 'Unimaginable' impact from EPA cuts Published March 17, 2017 School of Public Health's Tom Burke served as EPA science adviser, deputy assistant administrator Environmental health Scientists wary of coming climate policy shift Published Dec 8, 2016 Experts discuss what Trump's global warming skepticism, pledge to revive coal mean for environmental, public health Commentary Conservation complication Published Aug 2, 2016 Video Efforts to reduce water use in agriculture could end up having the opposite effect, JHU expert writes / Bloomberg View Marine ecology Canaries in cold seas Published Spring 2016
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/fracking/
 Fracking | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Fracking Environmental engineering New study investigates the integrity of oil and gas wells in multiple states Published March 25, 2021 The study provides valuable insights for industry operators and regulatory agencies seeking to prevent well leakage and ensure the success of oil and gas storage and production Study links fracking to health problems Published Aug 25, 2016 Unconventional natural gas wells associated with migraines, fatigue, chronic nasal and sinus symptoms Environmental health Fracking and asthma Published July 18, 2016 Study: Proximity to active unconventional natural gas wells increases likelihood of asthma attacks Maternal health Fracking and pregnancy Published Oct 12, 2015 Expectant mothers near hydraulic fracturing wells at greater risk for premature births, study suggests / Bloomberg School of Public Health
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/fracking/articles/
 Fracking | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Fracking Environmental engineering New study investigates the integrity of oil and gas wells in multiple states Published March 25, 2021 The study provides valuable insights for industry operators and regulatory agencies seeking to prevent well leakage and ensure the success of oil and gas storage and production Study links fracking to health problems Published Aug 25, 2016 Unconventional natural gas wells associated with migraines, fatigue, chronic nasal and sinus symptoms Environmental health Fracking and asthma Published July 18, 2016 Study: Proximity to active unconventional natural gas wells increases likelihood of asthma attacks Maternal health Fracking and pregnancy Published Oct 12, 2015 Expectant mothers near hydraulic fracturing wells at greater risk for premature births, study suggests / Bloomberg School of Public Health
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/maternal-health/
 Maternal health | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Maternal health Mental Health Adolescent stress may raise risk of postpartum depression in adults Published April 18, 2024 Early-life stress may lead to prolonged elevation of the hormone cortisol after childbirth and in turn, postpartum depression Maternal health Study affirms link between sickle cell disease, risk of increased mortality in pregnant people Published Feb 6, 2023 The study finds that the mortality rate for pregnant people with sickle cell disease is 26 times higher than the national average—a figure that hasn't improved since the last time this population was assessed Maternal health Study advances search for early postpartum depression indicators Published Oct 5, 2022 Biological markers could be critical in identifying mothers who are at a high risk of developing postpartum depression prior to their giving birth Maternal health Study finds harmful chemicals present in large sample of pregnant women Published Aug 11, 2022 A new study found
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/21/public-health-childhood-health-grant/
School of Public Health receives $95M grant to study environmental influences on child health | Hub
Stephanie Desmon
School of Public Health receives $95M grant to study environmental influences on child health By Stephanie Desmon / Published Sept 21, 2016 The National Institutes of Health today announced that the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, along with the research firm RTI International, will receive a seven-year, $95 million grant to analyze the data from a new initiative designed to understand how the environment influences health beginning in the womb. The Environmental Influences on Child Health Outcomes, or ECHO, program, will examine data from more than 50,000 children from across the United States and initially focus on four areas: Obesity Airway conditions such as asthma and allergies Neurodevelopment, including diseases such as autism Prenatal and postnatal outcomes, such as birth defects The Bloomberg School will lead the data analysis for ECHO while RTI leads the data management. "Everything around us may affect the health of children," says Lisa
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/15/bloomberg-american-health-initiative-gift/
 Michael Bloomberg gives $300M to Johns Hopkins for effort targeting major domestic public health issues | Hub
Stephanie Desmon
Philanthropy Michael Bloomberg gives $300M to Johns Hopkins for effort targeting major domestic public health issues Bloomberg American Health Initiative will focus on new approaches to drug addiction, obesity, gun violence, adolescent health, environmental threats Image caption: Michael R. Bloomberg speaks at the October 2014 dedication of Johns Hopkins University's Malone Hall. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Stephanie Desmon / Published Sept 15, 2016 Bloomberg Philanthropies, founded by businessman and three-term New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, will give $300 million to the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health for an initiative aimed at helping to reshape the national public health agenda, the school announced today. The gift, which coincides with the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Bloomberg School, will create the Bloomberg American Health Initiative, which will focus on five areas affecting public health—drug addiction, obesity, gun violence, adolescent health, and environmental
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/philanthropy/articles/
 Philanthropy | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Philanthropy In memoriam Harvey M. 'Bud' Meyerhoff dies at 96 Published Aug 8, 2023 People, programming across Johns Hopkins benefited from the generosity of philanthropist, trustee emeritus Philanthropy Pickens Foundation gives $20M to Wilmer Eye Institute Published Aug 7, 2023 Gift from foundation established by late philanthropist will support vision-saving research, professorships Philanthropy Study of cancer metastasis gets $35M boost at Hopkins Medicine Published May 10, 2023 Gift from researcher, philanthropist, and race car driver Theodore Giovanis will help scientists find ways to stop the spread of cancer in the body Film Forgotten era of filmmaking finds a new home Published Jan 3, 2023 The Sheridan Libraries has acquired the Academic Film Archive of North America, an eclectic collection of more than 7,600 vintage 16-mm films Philanthropy SAIS celebrates transformative gift Published Dec 12, 2022 $100M gift will allow SAIS Europe in Bologna, Italy, to expand its footprint,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/08/race-forums-intersectionality-identity/
Johns Hopkins hosts wide-ranging conversation on identity, activism | Hub
Taylor Jade Powell
Johns Hopkins hosts wide-ranging conversation on identity, activism Diverse panel welcomed as part of JHU Forums on Race in America series Image caption: Speakers (from left): Norma Day-Vines (moderator), Payton Head, Mo Speller, Monica Yorkman, and Laila Alawa Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Taylor Jade Powell / Published March 8, 2017 Students, faculty, and staff gathered in Johns Hopkins University's Shriver Hall on Tuesday night to talk race, intersectionality, and millennial social activism in the third installment of the JHU Forums on Race in America series for the 2016-17 academic year. Four panelists, varying in identity, shared their similar experiences with discrimination, classism, and fighting for what they believe is right. "The reality is that American Muslims have dealt with Islamophobia since day one, whether they are immigrants, or whether they were here … from the start of this nation." Laila AlawaCEO, The Tempest Speakers included Payton
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/16/understanding-american-muslims/
Muslim mythbusting: JHU grad invites open dialogue on faith, Islamophobia | Hub
Katie Pearce
Muslim mythbusting: JHU grad invites open dialogue on faith, Islamophobia 'Muslim Marine' kicks off series of events at Bloomberg School of Public Health designed to explore the Muslim American identity Image caption: Mansoor Shams (left) and Adnan Hyder Credit: Twitter By Katie Pearce / Published Feb 16, 2017 Mansoor Shams, a Muslim American veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps, invited his audience Wednesday to call out whatever stereotypes came to mind just by looking at him. When, inevitably, no one did, Shams supplied them himself: "The terrorist. The Bin Laden. The ISIS guy." Shams, speaking at a Johns Hopkins seminar on American Muslims, challenged everyone to grapple directly with those kind of thoughts rather than flicking them away to the subconscious. "In having these uncomfortable dialogues, we help understand each other better." Adnan HyderAssociate chair, Department of International Health "The moment a negative thought creeps into your mind, and you
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/01/daniels-immigration-order-message/
Johns Hopkins president on immigration ban: 'In this historic moment ... we cannot stand by' | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins president on immigration ban: 'In this historic moment ... we cannot stand by' Daniels shares message in response to executive order on immigration, refugees By Hub staff report / Published Feb 1, 2017 In a deeply personal message to students, faculty and staff about federal immigration actions, Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels today discussed his father's escape from Nazi Germany and immigration to Canada, the deaths of his own and his wife's family members in the Holocaust, and his own experience as an immigrant to the United States. Image caption: Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels The message comes five days after President Donald Trump signed an executive order blocking entry to the U.S. by individuals from seven countries—Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. The order also immediately suspends, for 120 days, the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, during which time refugees will not
http://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/02/hopkins-grad-student-immigration-dulles-airport/
 A Johns Hopkins grad student went to visit family in Iran; he wasn't sure he would be allowed back into the U.S. | Hub
Dave Alexander
A Johns Hopkins grad student went to visit family in Iran; he wasn't sure he would be allowed back into the U.S. Javad Fotouhi—who is pursuing a PhD in computer science at JHU—and his wife were detained for about four hours at Dulles Airport on Saturday night By Dave Alexander / Published Feb 2, 2017 Where do you go when you cannot go home? For the better part of four hours on Saturday night, Javad Fotouhi and his wife, Gilda—both natives of Iran who are lawful permanent residents of the U.S.—sat in the room at Dulles International Airport outside Washington, D.C., and pondered that question. Image caption: Javad Fotouhi They were scared, he said. Confused. Powerless. At times hopeless. They waited, apprehensive, wondering whether they would be allowed to return to their lives in Baltimore. "We built a life here for the past few years," said Javad, a Johns Hopkins
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/immigration/articles/
 Immigration | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Immigration Changing hearts, minds, and stomachs Published Spring 2023 SAIS alumni Téa Ivanovic and Peter Schechter founded Immigrant Food to defend the vision of America as an immigrant nation / Johns Hopkins Magazine Lives lost to hostile terrain Published Nov 15, 2021 Photos The 3,200 toe tags of the Hostile Terrain 94 art instillation aim to "rehumanize" migrants who have died while crossing the Sonoran Desert Domestic abuse A lifeline to immigrant women in need Published June 2, 2021 A new phone-based intervention provides culturally sensitive, trauma-informed resources for immigrant survivors of intimate partner violence IMMIGRATION JHU issues statement opposing extension of work visa limits Published June 29, 2020 Executive order signed last week suspends entry of certain foreign workers through 2020 University leaders praise Supreme Court DACA decision Published June 19, 2020 In 5-4 ruling, high court preserves protections for certain undocumented immigrants who came to the
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/01/29/refugee-ban-trump-executive-order-hopkins/
Johns Hopkins closely monitoring immigration ban developments, university leaders say | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins closely monitoring immigration ban developments, university leaders say Members of JHU community from affected countries urged to avoid travel outside U.S. By Hub staff report / Published Jan 29, 2017 In an email message sent late Saturday in response to an immigration ban enacted by President Donald Trump, Johns Hopkins University leaders said they were closely monitoring the situation and emphasized "the value we place on allowing students, scholars, and researchers from all countries to conduct their work here with us." "Johns Hopkins University is unequivocally committed to supporting students, faculty, and staff affected by the executive order. These members of our university community are important to our academic family and to our mission of education, discovery, and service." President Ronald J. Daniels and Provost Sunil Kumar The message came one day after Trump issued an executive order blocking entry to the U.S. by individuals from seven countries—Iran,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/09/connolly-trump-syllabus/
Understanding Trumpism: Syllabus co-compiled by Johns Hopkins historian goes viral post-election | Hub
Katie Pearce
Understanding Trumpism: Syllabus co-compiled by Johns Hopkins historian goes viral post-election N.D.B. Connolly worked with fellow scholars to crowd-source essential reading list By Katie Pearce / Published Dec 9, 2016 Even before he was elected, academics were clamoring to dissect the rise of Donald Trump. Johns Hopkins historian N.D.B. Connolly helped steer one such effort this summer, resulting in the "Trump Syllabus 2.0". Image caption: N.D.B. Connolly Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University The vast, crowd-sourced reading list explores the roots of American culture that produced "Trumpism"—which the authors define as "personal and political gain marred by intolerance, derived from wealth, and rooted in the history of segregation, sexism, and exploitation." Post-election, the syllabus has gone viral. It's the most widely read article the online journal Public Books has ever published. Various professors are drawing from the document for their teaching, and a Princeton University bookstore is distributing
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/20/daniels-kumar-daca-immigration-message/
Johns Hopkins issues statement on undocumented U.S. residents at the university | Hub
Hub staff report
MESSAGE Johns Hopkins issues statement on undocumented U.S. residents at the university University restates commitment to privacy protections, emergency financial support for undocumented students By Hub staff report / Published Dec 20, 2016 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels and Provost Sunil Kumar circulated a message to the university community Monday on concerns related to potential changes in U.S. immigration laws and regulations, emphasizing the university's belief that dismantling protections for undocumented students would "affect our country's vitality in significant ways." While it is unclear what policies the President-elect Donald Trump will put in place one he takes office, the issue of immigration was a cornerstone of his campaign, which included promises to deport all undocumented immigrants and to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. Trump also said during the campaign that he plans to repeal all executive orders put in place by President Barack Obama, which include
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/01/bloomberg-symposium-immigration-action/
Johns Hopkins symposium to look at impact of executive order on refugees, immigration | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins symposium to look at impact of executive order on refugees, immigration Bloomberg School hosts event exploring recent executive order, U.S. refugee resettlement and policy, and related public health and bioethics concerns By Hub staff report / Published Feb 1, 2017 The Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health will host a symposium examining the consequences of President Donald Trump's executive order suspending the U.S. refugee admission program. The symposium, "The Executive Order on Refugees: An Emerging Public Health Crisis," will take place from 3-5 p.m. on Thursday in the Bloomberg School's Sommer Hall on JHU's East Baltimore campus. Also seeHopkins public health faculty urge Trump not to restrict refugees entry to the US/ The Baltimore SunSyria’s medical and humanitarian nightmare: An Interview with Dr. Zaher Sahloul/ The World Post The executive order, signed Friday, blocks entry into the U.S. (with very narrow exceptions) of individuals from seven
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/02/hopkins-grad-student-immigration-dulles-airport/
A Johns Hopkins grad student went to visit family in Iran; he wasn't sure he would be allowed back into the U.S. | Hub
Dave Alexander
A Johns Hopkins grad student went to visit family in Iran; he wasn't sure he would be allowed back into the U.S. Javad Fotouhi—who is pursuing a PhD in computer science at JHU—and his wife were detained for about four hours at Dulles Airport on Saturday night By Dave Alexander / Published Feb 2, 2017 Where do you go when you cannot go home? For the better part of four hours on Saturday night, Javad Fotouhi and his wife, Gilda—both natives of Iran who are lawful permanent residents of the U.S.—sat in the room at Dulles International Airport outside Washington, D.C., and pondered that question. Image caption: Javad Fotouhi They were scared, he said. Confused. Powerless. At times hopeless. They waited, apprehensive, wondering whether they would be allowed to return to their lives in Baltimore. "We built a life here for the past few years," said Javad, a Johns Hopkins
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/03/daniels-immigration-letter-trump-college-presidents/
JHU's Daniels joins 47 other college presidents in urging Trump to 'rectify or rescind' immigration ban | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU's Daniels joins 47 other college presidents in urging Trump to 'rectify or rescind' immigration ban By Hub staff report / Published Feb 3, 2017 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels joined 47 other college and university presidents in sending a letter to President Donald Trump urging him to "rectify or rescind the recent executive order closing our country's borders to immigrants and others from seven majority-Muslim countries and to refugees from throughout the world. "Throughout its history America has been a land of opportunity and a beacon of freedom in the world," the letter says. "It has attracted talented people to our shores and inspired people around the globe. This executive order is dimming the lamp of liberty and staining the country's reputation." The letter was initially drafted by Princeton University President Christopher L. Eisgruber and University of Pennsylvania President Amy Gutmann. The full text of the letter
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/09/travel-immigration-refugee-ban-protest-hopkins/
Hundreds at Johns Hopkins voice opposition to immigration executive order | Hub
By Saralyn Lyons and Taylor Jade Powell
Hundreds at Johns Hopkins voice opposition to immigration executive order Students from across university organized protests at Homewood, East Baltimore campuses Image caption: Demonstrators gather outside the Armstrong Medical Education Building on Johns Hopkins University's East Baltimore campus. Credit: Katelynn Sachs By By Saralyn Lyons and Taylor Jade Powell / Published Feb 9, 2017 Patti Vining may be short, but in her bright pink hat with cat-like ears knitted on either side of her head, she stood out among the crowd of about 200 that had gathered along the McElderry Promenade on the Johns Hopkins medical campus on Thursday afternoon. The group braved a bitterly cold and windy day to join the campus demonstrations nationwide in protest of Donald Trump's recent executive order that temporarily bars the entry of immigrants from seven Muslim majority countries and suspends the U.S. refugee program. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University "I
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/03/ethics-health-impact-of-refusing-refugees/
Public health, bioethics experts discuss the consequences of refusing refugees | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Public health, bioethics experts discuss the consequences of refusing refugees Johns Hopkins hosts symposium on impact of President Trump's executive order Image caption: Yazidi refugees receive support from the International Rescue Committee Credit: Rachel Unkovic/International Rescue Committee By Saralyn Lyons / Published Feb 3, 2017 Bioethicist Nancy Kass says there are two schools of thought governing the current refugee crisis: a nationalist view "that essentially says 'not my problem,'" and a globalist view that resettling displaced populations is a moral mandate. "Stated differently," says Kass, "the benefit to others is a matter of life and death. And the sacrifice to us, in the long run, is minimal. In such cases, ethics says we should act." Kass was among the nine speakers who convened at the Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health on Thursday for a symposium examining the impact of President Donald Trump's recent executive order to block
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/09/sais-panel-on-refugee-ban/
Experts examine consequences of executive order on immigration, refugees | Hub
Saralyn Lyons and Nate Thompson
Experts examine consequences of executive order on immigration, refugees By Saralyn Lyons and Nate Thompson / Published Feb 9, 2017 Two events are seared into the mind of Anne Richard, a former assistant U.S. secretary of state for population, refugees, and migration who served under Barack Obama. Video credit: SAIS events The first is the day the body of Aylan Kurdi, a 3-year-old Syrian boy, washed up on a Turkish beach. The toddler had been fleeing with his family to Greece when the boat carrying them capsized. His mother and 5-year-old brother were also among the dead. That was the day, Richard said, the world woke up to the massive migrations taking place from the Middle East to Europe. The other date burned into her mind is Nov. 13, 2015—the night of the Paris Attacks. Orchestrated by European-born jihadists and individuals who may have entered Europe disguised as refugees, she
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/13/hopkins-travel-ban-amicus-brief/
Johns Hopkins, 16 other universities file court document opposing travel ban | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins, 16 other universities file court document opposing travel ban Schools say executive order threatens their mission of 'educating tomorrow's leaders from around the world' By Hub staff report / Published Feb 13, 2017 Johns Hopkins University is among 17 leading universities that filed an amicus brief Monday challenging President Donald Trump's executive order on immigration, saying the travel ban has "serious and chilling implications" for students, faculty, and scholars from around the world. In court papers filed in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, in support of a lawsuit by the attorney general of New York, the schools say the Jan. 27 executive action—which barred travel to the U.S. by refugees and citizens of seven countries—"threatens [the schools'] continuing ability to attract these individuals and thus to meet their goals of educating tomorrow's leaders from around the world." "By prohibiting persons from freely traveling to and from this
http://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/01/daniels-immigration-order-message/
 Johns Hopkins president on immigration ban: 'In this historic moment ... we cannot stand by' | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins president on immigration ban: 'In this historic moment ... we cannot stand by' Daniels shares message in response to executive order on immigration, refugees By Hub staff report / Published Feb 1, 2017 In a deeply personal message to students, faculty and staff about federal immigration actions, Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels today discussed his father's escape from Nazi Germany and immigration to Canada, the deaths of his own and his wife's family members in the Holocaust, and his own experience as an immigrant to the United States. Image caption: Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels The message comes five days after President Donald Trump signed an executive order blocking entry to the U.S. by individuals from seven countries—Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. The order also immediately suspends, for 120 days, the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, during which time refugees will not
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/donald-trump/articles/
 Donald trump | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Donald trump Q+A The Capitol insurrectionists and the lingering threat of extremist violence Published Jan 14, 2021 Eugene Finkel, an expert in violence, state collapse, and social change, discusses what we know about the rioters who attacked the U.S. Capitol one week ago and how the nation can confront the emerging threat of domestic terrorism Forum brings together experts and the public for discussion of Capitol insurrection Published Jan 12, 2021 SNF Agora Institute online forum provides expert answers to questions surrounding the impact, implications, and legacy of the attack on the U.S. Capitol Election 2020 In election's wake, a call for humility, empathy, and understanding Published Nov 4, 2020 While votes continue to be counted, SAIS Dean Eliot Cohen shares his insights about the lessons we still haven't learned from 2016 Q+A Election fallout: Could partisan division prompt civil upheaval? Published Nov 3, 2020 Political scientist Eugene
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/14/snow-day-photos/
No 'Snowmageddon' redux, but Hopkins takes a snow day | Hub
Hub staff report
Snow photos No 'Snowmageddon' redux, but Hopkins takes a snow day By Hub staff report / Published March 14, 2017 Baltimore dodged the big snowfall that many predicted on Tuesday, but a coating of snow, sleet, and ice covered much of the region and prompted Johns Hopkins University to cancel daytime classes. Latest information about weather-related closures schedule changes At the university's Homewood campus, students savored the snow day by sleeping in, throwing snowballs, and building snowmen. Posted in University News Tagged weather Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on X Share on Facebook Pin it on Pinterest Email More social media options Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr You might also like Trending
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/16/make-pluto-a-planet-again/
Scientists make the case to restore Pluto's planet status | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
Status update? Scientists make the case to restore Pluto's planet status Johns Hopkins doctoral student leads group that wants more inclusive definition of 'planet' Image caption: The Long Range Reconnaissance Imager aboard NASA's New Horizons spacecraft captured this photo of Pluto's surface in 2015 Credit: NASA / JHUAPL / SOUTHWEST RESEARCH INSTITUTE By Arthur Hirsch / Published March 16, 2017 Johns Hopkins University scientist Kirby Runyon wants to make one thing clear: Regardless of what one prestigious scientific organization says to the contrary, Pluto is a planet. So is Europa, commonly known as a moon of Jupiter, and the Earth's moon, and more than 100 other celestial bodies in our solar system that are denied this status under a prevailing definition of "planet." The new geophysical definition would expand the number of planets from eight to approximately 110. The definition approved by the International Astronomical Union in 2006 demoted Pluto
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/16/thomas-dolby-new-music-program-peabody/
Thomas Dolby to lead Music for New Media program at Peabody Institute | Hub
Hub staff report
Thomas Dolby to lead Music for New Media program at Peabody Institute Program will welcome its first undergraduate cohort in fall 2018 By Hub staff report / Published March 16, 2017 Music innovator, tech trailblazer, author, and Johns Hopkins University faculty member Thomas Dolby will lead a new four-year undergraduate degree program, Music for New Media, at the Peabody Conservatory of the Johns Hopkins University, Image caption: Thomas Dolby Music for New Media, which is slated to enroll its first cohort of students in the fall 2018 semester, will combine studies in music, composition, programming, and visual media to prepare students for careers in new and emerging platforms such as computer games and virtual reality. "This area of study is absolutely exploding with possibilities," said Dolby, who joined JHU as Homewood Professor of the Arts in 2014. "I'm excited to help Peabody shape Music for New Media into one of
http://hub.jhu.edu/2014/03/01/thomas-dolby-johns-hopkins/
 Digital music pioneer, 1980s pop icon Thomas Dolby to join Hopkins faculty | Hub
Jill Rosen
Digital music pioneer, 1980s pop icon Thomas Dolby to join Hopkins faculty Dolby is best known for 1982 synthpop hit 'She Blinded Me With Science' Video: Len Turner and David Schmelick By Jill Rosen / Published March 1, 2014 Thomas Dolby, creator of the memorable 1980s synthpop anthem "She Blinded Me With Science," will join Johns Hopkins University's faculty as the first Homewood Professor of the Arts. Image caption: Thomas Dolby tours Baltimore's Parkway Theatre, which is currently being renovated. Image credit: Larry Canner Since the debut of his hit single in 1982—which peaked at No. 5 on the U.S. Billboard chart—Dolby, now 55, has been at the forefront of digital music, pioneering ways to merge the music with film, technology, and science. At Johns Hopkins, starting in the fall, he will be teaching "Sound on Film," a collaboration between Homewood's Film and Media Studies program and Peabody's Recording Arts
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/10/13/speed-of-sound-thomas-dolby-memoir/
 Music pioneer Thomas Dolby discusses his new memoir and how technology revolutionized the music industry | Hub
Bret McCabe
Q+A Music pioneer Thomas Dolby discusses his new memoir and how technology revolutionized the music industry Johns Hopkins professor recently released memoir titled 'The Speed of Sound: Breaking the Barriers Between Music and Technology' By Bret McCabe / Published Oct 13, 2016 David Bowie, George Clinton, Michael Jackson, producer Jeff "Mutt" Lange, Joni Mitchell—Thomas Dolby recounts sharing the stage and spending time in the studio with a number of pop music's geniuses in his new memoir, The Speed of Sound: Breaking the Barriers Between Music and Technology (Flatiron Books). Image caption: Thomas Dolby The Johns Hopkins Professor of the Arts charts his musical journey—from being an aspiring musician in late 1970s London, awash in punk's insurgent energy and an underground of forward-looking musical experimenters; to his breakout 1982 album, The Golden Age of Wireless; and on through the turbulent 1980s music industry, a decade bracketed by the 1981 birth of
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/electronic-music/articles/
 Electronic music | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Electronic music Arts+Culture Digital music deep dive Published March 3, 2017 Digital Media Center's free New Forms/New Paths series spotlights trends in electronic music Q+A Breaking sound barriers Published Oct 13, 2016 JHU professor, music pioneer Thomas Dolby discusses his new memoir and how technology has revolutionized music Verse, chorus, wash, verse, chorus, rinse Published Summer 2016 Electronic music duo Matmos brings a third member on tour—a washing machine / Johns Hopkins Magazine
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/03/electronic-music-concert-workshop-panel/
Digital Media Center's weekend of events spotlights trends in electronic music | Hub
Bret McCabe
Digital Media Center's weekend of events spotlights trends in electronic music Friday concert at Mattin Center followed by Saturday workshop, Sunday panel discussion By Bret McCabe / Published March 3, 2017 Every single one of the top 10 songs on Billboard's Hot 100 for the week of March 11, 2017, contains some element of electronic music. Whether it's a sound made by a computer or a production process that relies on digital recording and editing technologies, almost all popular music owes a debt to electronic music, which began its slow climb into the mainstream from the academic research laboratories and avant-garde composer's desks of the 1950s. But that seepage into nearly every facet of music production has also winnowed an understanding of electronic music's wide range of ideas, practitioners, and points of view that have run through the art form since its earliest days. Image caption: Bonnie Jones Image credit:
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/17/former-epa-official-talks-agency-cutbacks/
Trump's proposed EPA cuts would have 'unimaginable' impact, public health expert says | Hub
Brian W. Simpson
Q+A Trump's proposed EPA cuts would have 'unimaginable' impact, public health expert says Tom Burke, a professor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, served as EPA science adviser, deputy assistant administrator By Brian W. Simpson / Published March 17, 2017 This article originally appeared in Global Health NOW, a publication by the Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health. President Donald Trump's proposed budget unveiled Thursday signals a major change to government's approach to environmental health. His recommended 30 percent cut to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency would mean the loss of 3,200 positions and dozens of programs. Image caption: Tom Burke While the proposed budget will not likely be adopted as is by the House and Senate, the recommended cuts have ignited a strong defense of environmental and public health programs. To put the issues in context, Global Health NOW turned to Tom Burke, who
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/09/22/marc-edwards-flint-dc-water-crisis/
Failure to learn lessons a decade earlier led to Flint water crisis, scientist says | Hub
Saralyn Lyons
Environmental health Failure to learn lessons a decade earlier led to Flint water crisis, scientist says Marc Edwards, credited with uncovering water contamination in Flint in 2014, discusses similar episode in Washington, D.C., that he says was 30 times worse Image caption: Civil engineer Marc Edwards Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Saralyn Lyons / Published Sept 22, 2016 Marc Edwards, a civil engineering professor at Virginia Tech, is the scientist credited with uncovering the water crisis in Flint, Michigan, in 2014-15. But he still demands accountability for a crisis he helped expose a decade earlier in Washington, D.C., where, he said, the lead-in-water contamination was 30 times worse than in Flint. "If you can't admit your mistakes, how can you hope to fix them? Because we didn't learn the lesson of Washington, D.C., I knew that someday it was going to happen again." Marc Edwards, Virginia Tech
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/17/holder-swimming-national-title-200-free/
First at last: Hopkins' Holder swims to NCAA title in 200 freestyle | Hub
Hub staff report
First at last: Hopkins' Holder swims to NCAA title in 200 freestyle Senior's winning time breaks national DIII record that had stood since 1988 Image caption: Johns Hopkins senior Evan Holder won the 200-yard freestyle at the NCAA Division III championships in a record time of 1:36.42. By Hub staff report / Published March 17, 2017 Johns Hopkins senior Evan Holder won the 200-yard freestyle on day two of the NCAA Division III Swimming & Diving Championships in Shenandoah, Texas, on Thursday night, outpacing the pack in a record-setting time of 1:36.32. Holder's time broke a 29-year-old national record, the longest-standing NCAA DIII swimming record on the books, by two-tenths of a second. It was a fitting finish for the senior in his final meet with the Blue Jays. Holder finished 20th in the 200 free as a freshman in 2014, fourth as a sophomore, and second as a junior.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/17/trump-budget-cuts-scientific-research-college-access/
Trump's proposed budget cuts imperil 'health of the nation,' Johns Hopkins president says | Hub
Hub staff report
Trump's proposed budget cuts imperil 'health of the nation,' Johns Hopkins president says Daniels, other Hopkins leaders decry potential reductions in funding for scientific research, programs supporting college access By Hub staff report / Published March 17, 2017 Federal budget cuts proposed by the Trump administration would threaten critical biomedical research at Johns Hopkins and at research institutions across the country, limit access to higher education, and ultimately put at risk "the long-term health of the nation," Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels said in a statement released today. Daniels joined leaders from JHU and beyond in stressing that the budget plan proposed Thursday by President Trump—which includes sharp increases in military spending but overall represents the most wide-ranging reduction in federal programs in more than half a century—would have significant, wide-ranging, and ultimately damaging effects. "By so many measures—from well-being to economic growth—these cuts risk not the health
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/07/daniels-nas-committee-chair-young-researchers/
 Daniels to lead national study on barriers, opportunities for young researchers | Hub
Hub staff report
Daniels to lead national study on barriers, opportunities for young researchers Johns Hopkins president tapped for role by National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine By Hub staff report / Published Dec 7, 2016 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels, a vocal proponent of increasing support for young researchers, has been tapped by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to chair a 16-person committee that will evaluate opportunities and barriers for new and early stage investigators in the biomedical and behavioral sciences. The committee's work was commissioned by Congress as part of the Next Generation Research Act. The group's study will include: An evaluation of the legislative, administrative, educational, and cultural barriers faced by young researchers An evaluation of the impact of federal budget constraints on young researchers Recommendations for the implementation of policies to incentivize, improve entry into, and sustain careers in research for young researchers,
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/03/catalyst-award-winners-2016-hopkins/
 Johns Hopkins awards $75K grants to support work of 34 early-career scholars | Hub
Hub staff report
Catalyst Awards Johns Hopkins awards $75K grants to support work of 34 early-career scholars Catalyst Awards are part of recent $15M university investment in faculty-led research By Hub staff report / Published Aug 3, 2016 Thirty-four early-career faculty members from across Johns Hopkins University—a diverse group that includes experts in anthropology, cosmology, cardiology, and other fields—have been selected to receive 2016 Catalyst Awards. The honor is accompanied by a $75,000 grant for their research and creative endeavors. The cohort will also participate in mentoring sessions and opportunities organized to connect these colleagues at a similar stage in their careers. "Funding can be a significant challenge for faculty in the early years. The Catalyst Awards are a show of support for their intellect and creativity and an investment in the ideas and discoveries they will bring to light." Ronald J. Daniels, JHU president The 2016 awardees represent some of the most
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/07/research-spending-hopkins-nsf/
 Johns Hopkins leads U.S. universities in research spending for 37th consecutive year | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
R&D spending Johns Hopkins leads U.S. universities in research spending for 37th consecutive year University spent a record $2.306 billion in FY2015, up 2.8% from its spending in FY2014 By Dennis O'Shea / Published Dec 7, 2016 Johns Hopkins University led U.S. universities in research and development spending for the 37th straight year in fiscal year 2015, putting a record $2.306 billion into projects to cure disease, promote human health, advance technology, and expand knowledge of the universe and ourselves. That total R&D expenditure in fiscal year 2015—the most recent year for which nationwide data is available—was 2.8 percent larger than Johns Hopkins' research spending in 2014, according to the recently released annual National Science Foundation report on institutional R&D. The University of Michigan again ranked second in total R&D with $1.369 billion spent. Rounding out the rest of the top five were the University of Washington, Seattle, at $1.181
http://hub.jhu.edu/2017/02/23/daniels-rosen-financial-aid-gift/
 Johns Hopkins president, his wife establish $1M endowment to aid first-generation college students | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
Johns Hopkins president, his wife establish $1M endowment to aid first-generation college students Daniels-Rosen First Generation Scholars Fund expected to meet financial need of four undergraduate students each year Image caption: Joanne Rosen and President Ronald J. Daniels (left) distribute donuts to students during the annual undergraduate study break before fall semester final exams. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Dennis O'Shea / Published Feb 23, 2017 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels and his wife, faculty member Joanne Rosen, are establishing a $1 million financial aid endowment for undergraduates who are among the first in their families to attend college. The Daniels-Rosen First Generation Scholars Fund will be created with $500,000 directly from the couple and another $500,000 presented to the university as part of a Carnegie Corporation of New York Academic Leadership Award that Daniels received in 2015. "The opportunity to help others achieve their
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/24/daniels-carnegie-corporation-academic-leadership-award/
 JHU President Ronald J. Daniels recognized for exceptional leadership by Carnegie Corp. | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU President Ronald J. Daniels recognized for exceptional leadership by Carnegie Corp. One of four recipients of biennial Academic Leadership Award, Daniels will use $500,000 grant to expand activities that make JHU more accessible to Baltimore public school students By Hub staff report / Published Sept 24, 2015 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels is one of four university presidents chosen by the Carnegie Corporation of New York to receive its 2015 Academic Leadership Award, given biennially in recognition of exceptional leadership in higher education, the corporation announced today. Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels The award, established in 2005, is among the most prestigious in higher education. It honors individuals who, in addition to fulfilling their administrative and managerial roles with dedication and creativity, demonstrate vision and a commitment to excellence and equity in undergraduate education, the liberal arts, the development of major interdisciplinary programs, reform of K-12
http://hub.jhu.edu/2016/03/24/baltimore-scholars-program-changes/
 Johns Hopkins increases investment in restructured Baltimore Scholars Program | Hub
Tracey Reeves
Johns Hopkins increases investment in restructured Baltimore Scholars Program Focus shifts to high-achieving students with significant financial need By Tracey Reeves / Published March 24, 2016 The Johns Hopkins University will restructure its Baltimore Scholars Program to offer greater financial aid and more robust supports to high-achieving Baltimore City Public School graduates with significant financial need. The shift represents a boost in the university's financial investment in the program. Over the last five years, Johns Hopkins has spent $11.6 million on the Baltimore Scholars Program; in the next five, it will spend more than $20 million. Launched in 2004 to provide full-tuition scholarships to any admitted graduates of city public schools, the Baltimore Scholars Program is a reflection of the university's long-standing investment in Baltimore's students and schools. The program recognizes high-potential students from the communities around Johns Hopkins campuses and has attracted more than 180 of the city's brightest
http://hub.jhu.edu/at-work/2015/06/25/catalyst-award-winners/
 Catalyst Awards granted to 37 early-career Johns Hopkins researchers | Hub
Hub staff report
Catalyst Awards granted to 37 early-career Johns Hopkins researchers By Hub staff report / Published June 25, 2015 Thirty-seven early-career Johns Hopkins faculty members have been chosen to receive up to $75,000 from the university's new Catalyst Awards program to pursue their research and creative endeavors. JHU President Ronald J. Daniels announced the Catalyst Awards program earlier this year along with Provost Robert C. Lieberman and the deans and directors of the academic divisions. It is part of a $15 million commitment to faculty-led research over three years. "The university's leadership is excited to make a substantial investment in these scholars and scientists at a critical moment in their careers when start-up funds and external support can be challenging to secure," Daniels says. "This group possesses a remarkable depth of intellect, creativity, and passion, and it will be thrilling to see their ideas unleashed." The program is open to any
http://hub.jhu.edu/at-work/2015/09/04/catalyst-discovery-celebration/
 Johns Hopkins scholars, leaders celebrate faculty research awards | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins scholars, leaders celebrate faculty research awards 60 projects to receive support from Catalyst, Discovery award programs By Hub staff report / Published Sept 4, 2015 Scholars from across Johns Hopkins University's 10 divisions gathered last night at the George Peabody Library to celebrate 60 innovative research projects that are being supported by the inaugural Catalyst and Discovery awards. In his remarks, university President Ronald J. Daniels praised the award winners' creativity and boldness, and the "unprecedented collaborations that draw on your individual strengths and unite our divisions in tackling daunting research questions." Daniels also told those in attendance; "We know that our investment cannot replace robust federal funding for the essential creative and investigative work of our university's scholars and researchers. But we also know that when it comes to sparking your discoveries, we just can't wait." Thirty-seven early career scholars received Catalyst Awards and 23 cross-divisional faculty
http://hub.jhu.edu/at-work/2016/10/25/biomedical-scientific-workforce-committee/
 University policies, practices on biomedical scientific workforce to be surveyed | Hub
Hub staff report
University policies, practices on biomedical scientific workforce to be surveyed Faculty-led committee to make recommendations for helping individuals excel in this critical field By Hub staff report / Published Oct 25, 2016 A new faculty-led committee has been charged with surveying the university's policies and practices regarding the biomedical scientific workforce and proposing recommendations to help individuals excel in this critical field. The Committee on the Biomedical Scientific Workforce will explore a range of topics, such as resources for early-career and established investigators, the development and promotion of alternative career paths, such as staff scientists, and the strengthening and staffing of the core facilities that support many of these alternative careers. The committee's mandate, posted on the Office of the Provost website, notes that biomedical researchers in the United States have driven discovery and innovation while the use of competitive peer-reviewed grants to independent scientists has fueled the development of
http://hub.jhu.edu/gazette/2014/march-april/east-baltimore-henderson-hopkins-opening/
 City, state officials gather for formal opening of Henderson-Hopkins school | Hub

City, state officials gather for formal opening of Henderson-Hopkins school Video: David Schmelick and Len Turner Published March-April 2014 Johns Hopkins President Ronald J. Daniels and a host of city and state officials gathered on the morning of Feb. 10 to formally open the $43 million Henderson-Hopkins K-8 community school, the first new public school building in East Baltimore in more than two decades. Image caption: State Sen. Nathaniel McFadden, Morgan President David Wilson, U.S. Rep. John Sarbanes, U.S. Sen. Barbara Mikulski, Gov. Martin O’Malley, Johns Hopkins President Ronald J. Daniels, and U.S. Rep. Elijah Cummings join Henderson-Hopkins students at the school’s official opening. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Among those on hand for the celebration—which included lively performances by student groups—were Sen. Barbara Mikulski, Rep. Elijah Cummings, Gov. Martin O'Malley, Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, Baltimore Schools interim CEO Tisha Edwards, and Patricia L. Welch, dean of Morgan
http://hub.jhu.edu/news-info/
 News+Info                 | Hub

News+Info Newest in News+Info ADVANCING YOUR CAREER JHU announces Career Architecture Project Published May 3, 2024 The goal is to clarify, define, and codify every staff job at the university CHEERS Faculty appointments and promotions: January and March Published April 26, 2024 Newly recognized are in Public Health, Arts and Sciences, SAIS, Medicine, Nursing, and Engineering CHEERS Laura Stott named Supervisor of the Year for her work with students Published April 25, 2024 Award from Experiential Learning recognizes her ability to guide, encourage, and advise her student employees HUMAN RESOURCES First JHU Report on Staff Pay Equity released Published April 18, 2024 Publication marks step toward realizing goals in Ten for One and Second Roadmap on DEI WHO DOES THAT? The TA team brings thousands of new employees to JHU each year Published April 11, 2024 Talent Acquisition's recent structural shift from a 'vertical' to a 'relationship' model is expected
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/baltimore-scholars/articles/
 Baltimore scholars | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Baltimore scholars Peabody's support helps lift city musician to new heights Published Oct 12, 2018 Peabody provides a springboard for East Baltimore native Mateen Milan, who dreams of joining a professional orchestra Student service Applying to college 101 Published April 15, 2016 Alpha Phi Omega fraternity aims to make college admissions process less intimidating for city students Baltimore Scholars Program revamped Published March 24, 2016 Changes include greater financial commitment, focus on students with significant financial need
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/catalyst-awards/articles/
 Catalyst awards | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Catalyst awards Research funding 37 faculty members receive Johns Hopkins Catalyst Awards Published May 8, 2023 Honorees representing dozens of fields receive $75K each to support their work FEB. 15 DEADLINE 2023 Catalyst and Discovery awards now accepting applications Published Nov 14, 2022 Early career and new cross-divisional teams are invited to submit proposals Research funding 38 early-career faculty earn Johns Hopkins Catalyst Awards Published May 5, 2022 Honorees representing dozens of fields receive $75,000 each to support their work Research funding Catalyst and Discovery Awards renewed Published Aug 6, 2021 The funding programs have awarded $30M to early career researchers and teams working across disciplines at Johns Hopkins since 2015 RESEARCH FUNDING 33 early-career faculty members receive Catalyst Awards Published June 6, 2019 Honorees representing 26 academic departments receive $75K each to support their work RESEARCH FUNDING 32 early-career faculty members earn Catalyst Awards Published June 4,
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/discovery-awards/articles/
 Discovery awards | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Discovery awards Research funding Discovery Awards received by 35 interdisciplinary research teams Published May 8, 2023 Winning projects—chosen from 191 proposals—include 115 individuals from across the university FEB. 15 DEADLINE 2023 Catalyst and Discovery awards now accepting applications Published Nov 14, 2022 Early career and new cross-divisional teams are invited to submit proposals Funding Johns Hopkins grants 35 teams Discovery Awards Published May 23, 2022 Winning interdisciplinary projects, chosen from a record 199 proposals, include 105 individuals from across the university Research funding Catalyst and Discovery Awards renewed Published Aug 6, 2021 The funding programs have awarded $30M to early career researchers and teams working across disciplines at Johns Hopkins since 2015 Research 41 interdisciplinary teams earn Discovery Awards Published Dec 7, 2020 Winning projects—chosen from a record 274 proposals—include 138 individuals from across the university Discovery Awards 32 research teams receive funding Published June 14, 2019 Winning
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/financial-aid/articles/
 Financial aid | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Financial aid Undergraduate education Peabody to meet full student financial need and eliminate loans Published Feb 2, 2024 Peabody is the largest—and one of the few—conservatories in the U.S. to make the commitment to meeting full financial need SAIS Europe $100M gift will significantly expand SAIS Bologna campus Published Dec 9, 2022 The gift from philanthropists James and Morag Anderson will transform SAIS Europe into an international hub for research and collaboration Undergraduate admissions JHU launches program for high-achieving students from Washington, D.C. Published Feb 11, 2022 The D.C. Scholars Program will offer financial aid, other benefits to graduates of D.C. public schools and public charter schools beginning in the fall of 2022 Financial aid JHU distributes federal relief to students most impacted by COVID-19 disruptions Published July 17, 2020 Approximately 10% of all JHU students are eligible to receive $1,200 grants to cover costs incurred due to
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/research-spending/articles/
 Research spending | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Research spending R&D spending JHU again leads nation in research spending Published Dec 7, 2016 Hopkins spent a record $2.306 billion in FY2015, the most among U.S. universities for the 37th year in a row
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/university-administration/articles/
 University administration | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles University administration University leadership Ray Jayawardhana named 16th provost Published July 12, 2023 Renowned astrophysicist, accomplished academic leader joins JHU from Cornell, where he has served as dean of the College of Arts and Sciences since 2018 University news Stephen Gange named interim provost Published Feb 22, 2023 A longtime faculty member and university administrator, Gange will serve as interim provost as a global search begins for a new provost University news Richard Mendola named vice president and chief information officer Published Jan 30, 2023 Mendola comes to Hopkins from Emory, where he has overseen IT for both the university and health system and aligned enterprisewide practices in communications, security, and identity management Alicia Wilson named to philanthropy leadership role at JPMorgan Chase Published Dec 6, 2022 Wilson, who joined Johns Hopkins as the inaugural vice president for economic development in 2019, will leave the institution at the
http://hub.jhu.edu/topics/news-info/articles/2/
 News+Info | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles News+Info TUITION REMISSION Is your high schooler interested in math, science, and technology? Published March 1, 2024 Applications to Johns Hopkins Engineering Innovation's Pre-College Programs are open for summer 2024 CONGRATS Milestones: March 2024 Published March 1, 2024 Find out who's celebrating a milestone anniversary with the university this month REPRESENTATION JHU Staff Advisory Council is up and running Published Feb 26, 2024 Photos Inaugural members gather for a daylong orientation and first meeting SIGN UP TODAY Can you host a Summer Jobs Program intern? Published Feb 16, 2024 The 30th anniversary cohort—whose salaries are covered by program sponsors—will be on-site 25 hours a week, from June 24 to Aug. 9 REPRESENTATION Elected members of the inaugural JHU Staff Advisory Council announced Published Feb 8, 2024 Role is to help inform key decisions and policymaking for staff initiatives at Johns Hopkins IMPORTANT Employee tax exempt status expires Feb.
https://hub.jhu.edu/2014/01/07/henderson-hopkins-school-opening/
New Henderson-Hopkins school in East Baltimore opens its doors | Hub
Joe Sugarman
New Henderson-Hopkins school in East Baltimore opens its doors K-8 school operated by Johns Hopkins, Morgan State moves to new $43M facility, the first new school built in East Baltimore in more than 20 years Image caption: Students tour the new $43 million Henderson-Hopkins school, which officially opened its doors to students on Jan. 2. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Joe Sugarman / Published Jan 7, 2014 Editor's note: This article will be published in the forthcoming January/February issue of the Gazette. During the June 2012 groundbreaking ceremony for the Henderson-Hopkins K-8 elementary/middle school, Johns Hopkins President Ron Daniels noticed an Amtrak train whizzing by. "Imagine that in the years to come," he told the crowd, "when people go up and down the Northeast corridor, what they will see in East Baltimore is this magnificent school." Just a year and a half later, when southbound train passengers
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/06/12/henderson-groundbreaking/
Breaking new ground in East Baltimore | Hub

Breaking new ground in East Baltimore New $43M elementary school, early childhood center expected to be completed in the 2013-14 school year Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels speaks with students of the new Henderson-Hopkins school during groundbreaking festivities in East Baltimore. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Published June 12, 2012 More than 300 East Baltimore students, residents and supporters joined Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, other city and state officials and Ronald J. Daniels, president of The Johns Hopkins University, on June 12 for the ceremonial groundbreaking of a new $43 million elementary school and The Harry and Jeanette Weinberg Early Childhood Center. Image caption: Johns Hopkins School of Education Dean David Andrews (right) and Dr. Annette Anderson, assistant dean for community schools at the School of Education, attend the groundbreaking ceremony for the new Henderson-Hopkins school in East Baltimore. Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/02/discovery-catalyst-awards/
Two new research awards draw nearly 400 proposals from JHU faculty | Hub
Hub staff report
Two new research awards draw nearly 400 proposals from JHU faculty Discovery, Catalyst awards to provide $15M in funding over three years By Hub staff report / Published April 2, 2015 Two new awards announced in January have drawn an unprecedented response from Johns Hopkins University faculty in every division. Close to 400 total applications were submitted for the Discovery and Catalyst Awards by the deadline Tuesday night. "The response speaks to the boundless imagination, energy, and collaborative spirit of our faculty across all our divisions," said JHU President Ronald J. Daniels. "It's also an affirmation of our university's efforts to step up and support our faculty's creativity in the face of significant funding constraints. This is a great One University moment." A cadre of more than 50 faculty members will now review 217 proposals for the Discovery Awards and 176 for the Catalyst Awards and finalize the recipients by
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/10/science-coalition-daniels-research-funding/
Video: Daniels stresses importance of continued investment in research | Hub
Hub staff report
Video: Daniels stresses importance of continued investment in research Johns Hopkins president featured in new Science Coalition video Video: The Science Coalition By Hub staff report / Published Sept 10, 2015 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels emphasizes the "critical importance" of continued investment in scientific research and development in a new video released today by The Science Coalition. "One of the things that has been so remarkable about this country, the genius of this country, has been its willingness to invest where other countries have not, in basic R&D, and recognizing that that investment will have a whole host of consequences that will improve [life in] this country … in ways we can't possibly imagine," Daniels says in the video, part of the group's Science 2034 project. Science 2034 was launched by The Science Coalition, which advocates for strengthening federal support for basic scientific and engineering research. The
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/01/27/catalyst-discovery-awards-faculty-research
 New Johns Hopkins awards to provide $15M to support faculty-led research | Hub
Phil Sneiderman
New Johns Hopkins awards to provide $15M to support faculty-led research Funding will target early-career faculty, cross-university projects By Phil Sneiderman / Published Jan 27, 2015 Johns Hopkins University today announced two new award programs that together will provide an additional $15 million to advance innovative faculty-led research over the next three years. The expanded university funding is aimed at promising early-career scholars and at organizers of ambitious research projects proposed by teams that involve more than one Johns Hopkins division or affiliate. These new internal financial awards are urgently needed to make up for declining research funds from traditional government sources, such as the National Institutes of Health, university officials said. "The academic leadership at the university wants our faculty to know how inspired by and supportive we are of the work they do to expand the horizons of knowledge," Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels said. "These
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/10/21st-century-cures-act-daniels
 Daniels applauds passage of House bill that includes funding support for biomedical research | Hub
Hub staff report
Daniels applauds passage of House bill that includes funding support for biomedical research 21st Century Cures Act includes provisions designed to speed drug approval process, additional $8.75B in funding for NIH By Hub staff report / Published July 10, 2015 The U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly today in favor of a bipartisan bill that would speed the development of lifesaving drugs and medical devices and provide additional funding for biomedical research. The bill, called the 21st Century Cures Act, includes provisions that attempt to make the drug approval process less unwieldy and also calls for an additional $8.75 billion in funding for the National Institutes of Health. The bill passed by a 344-77 vote on Friday morning; it now moves to the Senate. Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels welcomed the House's passage of the bill as an important step in addressing dwindling funding for research. "Today's strong
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/biomedical-research/articles/
 Biomedical research | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Biomedical research Engineering Watch this robot do 'the Worm' when temperature changes Published Dec 14, 2022 A gelatinous robot that crawls, powered by nothing more than temperature change and clever design, brings 'a kind of intelligence' to the field of soft robotics Research Under pressure Published June 3, 2020 Inspired by colorful coral reefs, Hopkins researchers have created a self-adapting material that can change its stiffness in response to applied force COVID-19 Hopkins researchers meet 'the urgency of this moment' Published April 21, 2020 The university has launched an ambitious, wide-ranging, interdisciplinary research effort to tackle the many challenges presented by COVID-19 University outlines plan to support biomedical workforce Published Sept 13, 2018 Report offers recommendations related to training and professional development, transparency, access to funding and resources National report urges stronger support for biomedical workforce Published April 12, 2018 Committee chaired by JHU's Daniels authors report addressing
http://hub.jhu.edu/tags/nih-funding/articles/
 Nih funding | Archived articles                 | Hub

Archived articles Nih funding Health equity Bridging divides in AI, machine learning Published Dec 21, 2021 A Johns Hopkins team will lead new effort bringing artificial intelligence, machine learning to health care in underrepresented communities Health equity Two Hopkins researchers receive $20M from NIH Published Sept 30, 2021 Lisa Cooper, Deidra Crews will lead the Mid-Atlantic Center for Cardiometabolic Health Equity, which will address hypertension, obesity, diabetes, heart failure, and kidney disease Research funding Daniels applauds passage of 21st Century Cures bill Published July 10, 2015 Bipartisan House bill includes $8.75B in funding for biomedical research, provisions designed to speed drug approval process School of Nursing ranks No. 1 nationally in NIH funding Published Nov 13, 2012 School brought in nearly $8.6M in grants for fiscal year 2012, moves up from fourth last year / School of Nursing
https://hub.jhu.edu/2012/11/13/nursing-nih-funding/
 School of Nursing ranks No. 1 nationally in NIH funding | Hub
Hub staff report
School of Nursing ranks No. 1 nationally in NIH funding By Hub staff report / Published Nov 13, 2012 The Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing is ranked No. 1 among schools of nursing for total National Institutes of Health funding, the school announced yesterday. The School of Nursing brought in nearly $8.6 million in NIH grants for fiscal year 2012, which ended in November. The school ranked fourth nationally for NIH funding in the prior fiscal year. "We're proud and excited to achieve this standing," Dean Martha Hill said. "But the best news here is what this says about our research, our researchers, and the focus on excellence in all that we do." NIH-funded work at the School of Nursing includes research pertaining to cardiovascular disease, aging, and violence prevention. Read more from School of Nursing Posted in Health, University News Tagged nih funding Share on X Share on
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/02/02/research-funfing-sun-editorial/
As Daniels sounds alarm on decline in funding for young scientists, Congress eyes solutions | Hub
Hub staff report
As Daniels sounds alarm on decline in funding for young scientists, Congress eyes solutions 'Baltimore Sun' editorial: Bipartisan support for solutions within reach By Hub staff report / Published Feb 2, 2015 An editorial published Sunday by The Baltimore Sun takes a look at recent efforts by Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels to call attention to the issue of declining funding for young researchers and sounds a hopeful note on the prospect of bipartisan congressional support to address the problem. In a recent article published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Daniels noted that America's youngest scientists are increasingly missing out on research dollars and leaving the academic biomedical workforce, a brain drain that poses grave risks for the future of science. The age at which these researchers are getting their first major grants from the National Institutes of Health has steadily advanced during
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/02/06/research-spending-rankings-nsf/
Johns Hopkins leads nation in research spending for 35th year in a row | Hub
Jill Rosen
Johns Hopkins leads nation in research spending for 35th year in a row $2.2B spent on medical, science, engineering research in FY2013 Credit: istock By Jill Rosen / Published Feb 6, 2015 Johns Hopkins University led the U.S. in higher education research spending for the 35th consecutive year in fiscal 2013, with $2.2 billion for medical, science, and engineering research, according to the National Science Foundation. The university also once again ranked first on the NSF's separate list of federally funded research and development, spending $1.89 billion in fiscal year 2013 on research supported by NSF, NASA, the National Institutes of Health, and the Department of Defense. At Johns Hopkins, research and development money supports investigations into everything from the origins of the universe to potentially lifesaving medical treatments. Recently researchers have studied the implications of climate change, better protection for those treating Ebola, brain injuries in NFL players, how
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/07/10/21st-century-cures-act-daniels/
Daniels applauds passage of House bill that includes funding support for biomedical research | Hub
Hub staff report
Daniels applauds passage of House bill that includes funding support for biomedical research 21st Century Cures Act includes provisions designed to speed drug approval process, additional $8.75B in funding for NIH By Hub staff report / Published July 10, 2015 The U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly today in favor of a bipartisan bill that would speed the development of lifesaving drugs and medical devices and provide additional funding for biomedical research. The bill, called the 21st Century Cures Act, includes provisions that attempt to make the drug approval process less unwieldy and also calls for an additional $8.75 billion in funding for the National Institutes of Health. The bill passed by a 344-77 vote on Friday morning; it now moves to the Senate. Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels welcomed the House's passage of the bill as an important step in addressing dwindling funding for research. "Today's strong
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/24/daniels-carnegie-corporation-academic-leadership-award/
JHU President Ronald J. Daniels recognized for exceptional leadership by Carnegie Corp. | Hub
Hub staff report
JHU President Ronald J. Daniels recognized for exceptional leadership by Carnegie Corp. One of four recipients of biennial Academic Leadership Award, Daniels will use $500,000 grant to expand activities that make JHU more accessible to Baltimore public school students By Hub staff report / Published Sept 24, 2015 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels is one of four university presidents chosen by the Carnegie Corporation of New York to receive its 2015 Academic Leadership Award, given biennially in recognition of exceptional leadership in higher education, the corporation announced today. Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels The award, established in 2005, is among the most prestigious in higher education. It honors individuals who, in addition to fulfilling their administrative and managerial roles with dedication and creativity, demonstrate vision and a commitment to excellence and equity in undergraduate education, the liberal arts, the development of major interdisciplinary programs, reform of K-12
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/05/2016-discovery-awards/
Johns Hopkins Discovery Awards given to 24 cross-divisional research teams | Hub
Sandra Alexander
Johns Hopkins Discovery Awards given to 24 cross-divisional research teams Discovery Awards are part of recent $15M university investment in faculty-led research By Sandra Alexander / Published Aug 5, 2016 Twenty-four cross-divisional teams have been awarded Johns Hopkins Discovery Awards to pursue innovative partnerships on collaborative research projects that bridge dozens of fields. With these awards, teams will be combining expertise in chemistry and electrical engineering to invent new photovoltaic materials; geriatric medicine and musical performance to improve quality of life for dementia patients and their caregivers; and molecular biology, neurobiology, and pathogen identification to develop a diagnostic device for detecting malaria by breath. In total, the 24 teams are composed of 84 faculty members and research scientists from across 10 Johns Hopkins schools and divisions. "We are once again inspired by the creative and collaborative proposals received from throughout our university," says Ronald J. Daniels, president of Johns Hopkins
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/08/03/catalyst-award-winners-2016-hopkins/
Johns Hopkins awards $75K grants to support work of 34 early-career scholars | Hub
Hub staff report
Catalyst Awards Johns Hopkins awards $75K grants to support work of 34 early-career scholars Catalyst Awards are part of recent $15M university investment in faculty-led research By Hub staff report / Published Aug 3, 2016 Thirty-four early-career faculty members from across Johns Hopkins University—a diverse group that includes experts in anthropology, cosmology, cardiology, and other fields—have been selected to receive 2016 Catalyst Awards. The honor is accompanied by a $75,000 grant for their research and creative endeavors. The cohort will also participate in mentoring sessions and opportunities organized to connect these colleagues at a similar stage in their careers. "Funding can be a significant challenge for faculty in the early years. The Catalyst Awards are a show of support for their intellect and creativity and an investment in the ideas and discoveries they will bring to light." Ronald J. Daniels, JHU president The 2016 awardees represent some of the most
https://hub.jhu.edu/2016/12/07/research-spending-hopkins-nsf/
Johns Hopkins leads U.S. universities in research spending for 37th consecutive year | Hub
Dennis O'Shea
R&D spending Johns Hopkins leads U.S. universities in research spending for 37th consecutive year University spent a record $2.306 billion in FY2015, up 2.8% from its spending in FY2014 By Dennis O'Shea / Published Dec 7, 2016 Johns Hopkins University led U.S. universities in research and development spending for the 37th straight year in fiscal year 2015, putting a record $2.306 billion into projects to cure disease, promote human health, advance technology, and expand knowledge of the universe and ourselves. That total R&D expenditure in fiscal year 2015—the most recent year for which nationwide data is available—was 2.8 percent larger than Johns Hopkins' research spending in 2014, according to the recently released annual National Science Foundation report on institutional R&D. The University of Michigan again ranked second in total R&D with $1.369 billion spent. Rounding out the rest of the top five were the University of Washington, Seattle, at $1.181
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/04/04/extreme-materials-mica-art-exhibition/
Going to extremes: Photographer captures the complex work of Johns Hopkins materials scientists | Hub
Arthur Hirsch
Going to extremes: Photographer captures the complex work of Johns Hopkins materials scientists MICA's Jay Gould creates exhibition based on HEMI artist-in-residence experience Image caption: Jay Gould's exhibition, created during his time as an artist in residence at the Hopkins Extreme Materials Institute, includes an accordion book of 180 time-lapse images that that capture 32 microseconds of magnesium cracking under high-speed impact. Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Arthur Hirsch / Published April 4, 2017 Photographer Jay Gould has mounted an exhibition at Johns Hopkins University's Milton S. Eisenhower Library of work that he made as a record of a recent cross-cultural expedition. The professor of photography at the Maryland Institute College of Art spent about a year in another world where the inhabitants sometimes speak a different language, write in arcane code, focus deeply on the finest points of literally Earth-shaking problems and, as they themselves acknowledge,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/04/10/sophomore-spring-garden-party/
Sophomore spring soirée: JHU Class of 2019 comes together for annual gathering | Hub
Taylor Jade Powell
Garden party Sophomore spring soirée: JHU Class of 2019 comes together for annual gathering By Taylor Jade Powell / Published April 10, 2017 Nestled next to the Sculpture Gardens of the Baltimore Museum of Art—fit with servers holding trays of fizzy drinks, tables made with white linens, and a heated tent draped with strings of soft lights—members of the Johns Hopkins University Class of 2019 mingled, chatted about politics or their futures, and listened to a mix of Top 40 and tropical house music. Friday night's Spring Garden Party is a sophomore tradition that has no formal program. It is simply a night for sophomores to celebrate their class and connect with fellow Blue Jays. "It's just a time for us to get the entire class together," said Ash Panakam, a public health studies major and sophomore class senator. "[To] talk to each other, have a good time, create connections,
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/04/17/rachel-green-bloomberg-distinguished-professor/
Johns Hopkins biologist, geneticist Rachel Green named Bloomberg Distinguished Professor | Hub
Katie Pearce
Johns Hopkins biologist, geneticist Rachel Green named Bloomberg Distinguished Professor By Katie Pearce / Published April 17, 2017 Rachel Green has an unusually specific passion: the ribosome. The biologist and geneticist has been researching the cellular structure for nearly three decades now, fascinated by the bridge it forms between the ancient and modern worlds. The laboratory she heads at Johns Hopkins, The Green Lab, is devoted to this complex macromolecular machine, investigating and manipulating its roles in protein expression. It's hands-on research that digs into the most fundamental principles of science—exactly the kind of work, Green says, that can break through to "great discoveries and important medicine." Interdisciplinary scholarsMeet the Bloomberg Distinguished ProfessorsLearn about the distinguished faculty who have already joined Johns Hopkins University as part of the BDP initiative With her new appointment as a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor, Green has the opportunity to go deeper with this research, initiating
https://hub.jhu.edu/2017/04/21/21cc-hearing-their-voices-forum/
Community organizers, policymakers discuss new approaches for reaching Baltimore's youth | Hub
Katie Pearce
Hearing their voices Community organizers, policymakers discuss new approaches for reaching Baltimore's youth JHU's 21st Century Cities Initiative releases report based on conversations with young people in the wake of the death of Freddie Gray in 2015 Image caption: Adam Jackson (right), co-chair of a new $12 million youth fund in Baltimore, was among the participants in Thursday's discussion. Credit: Isherra Muse By Katie Pearce / Published April 21, 2017 When Johns Hopkins researchers made an effort to hear from young people in Baltimore after the death of Freddie Gray, they found some sobering opinions of the city. Of the 58 teenagers and young adults who offered candid interviews for the "Hearing Their Voices" project, not one saw their future in Baltimore City. They all hoped to move away one day. "There was a sense of abandonment in their neighborhoods—a lack of safe public spaces and a lack of programs
http://hub.jhu.edu/hopkins-baltimore-community-response
Baltimore's unrest: Johns Hopkins responds                 | Hub

Baltimore's unrest: Johns Hopkins responds Last spring, turmoil in cities across the country and here in Baltimore sparked important conversations on our campuses about racial inequality and deep divisions that exist in our society. In response, Johns Hopkins University has strengthened its commitment to providing economic and employment opportunities in Baltimore, and to discussing, investigating, and addressing critical underlying issues—police brutality, mass incarceration, separate and unequal schools, and an ever-growing wealth gap. A message from Johns Hopkins leadership April 2016 This month marks the first anniversary of the tragic death of Freddie Gray and the unrest that followed. It was a moment that exposed gaping disparities within this city while bringing many of us together in common cause. As we approach this somber anniversary, we want to express our profound appreciation for the efforts you have undertaken over the past year to make our city stronger, and to encourage all
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/29/daniels-message-baltimore-unrest
 Daniels: 'Resilience and optimism' will define Baltimore, not 'spasms of violence' | Hub

Daniels: 'Resilience and optimism' will define Baltimore, not 'spasms of violence' JHU president sends message in wake of day of unrest across city Published April 29, 2015 Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels sent the message below to the university community on Tuesday, a day after violent protests and unrest erupted across Baltimore. Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels Dear Faculty, Students, and Staff: Those of us who call Baltimore home are deeply saddened by the violence that erupted across our city yesterday following the tragic death of Freddie Gray while in police custody. We condemn this violence and, in particular, its devastating effect on the neighborhoods where it occurred. Further, we join those who are endorsing the urgency of a full and independent investigation of the circumstances surrounding Mr. Gray's death. It is essential that all of our city's citizens have trust and confidence in professional and fair
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/04/30/ta-nehisi-coates-race-forum
 In wake of Baltimore unrest, Ta-Nehisi Coates steers conversation to history of racial inequality, violence | Hub
Katie Pearce
In wake of Baltimore unrest, Ta-Nehisi Coates steers conversation to history of racial inequality, violence Acclaimed writer speaks at inaugural 'JHU Forum on Race in America' Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University By Katie Pearce / Published April 30, 2015 The inaugural JHU Forum on Race in America featuring acclaimed writer and Baltimore native Ta-Nehisi Coates was planned months ago, organizers said, to launch a conversation at Johns Hopkins University about race and racism in our community and in our country. Image caption: Ta-Nehisi Coates Image credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University Just days before the event, Baltimore erupted into riots following the funeral of Freddie Gray, the unrest beginning in the same neighborhood where Coates grew up. His mother, Coates wrote in The Atlantic earlier this week, was raised in the same West Baltimore housing project in which Gray was taken into police custody. With concerns about
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/04/summer-jobs-program-2015/
Johns Hopkins summer jobs program for Baltimore youth expands by 50% | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins summer jobs program for Baltimore youth expands by 50% University, hospital, health system to employ 300 students this summer By Hub staff report / Published June 4, 2015 Johns Hopkins is expanding its annual institution-wide Summer Jobs Program, which gives Baltimore City youth between the ages of 15 and 21 a chance to experience various careers while getting a taste of workplace culture. This year, the university, hospital, and health system are gearing up to employ 300 students—100 more than last summer—over the course of two summer work sessions, starting June 22 and July 27. This year's cohort is the largest in the 21-year history of the Summer Jobs Program, which was able to expand because faculty and staff quickly stepped up to provide additional paid internships for the city's young people. An email message sent Wednesday afternoon by Johns Hopkins leaders urged faculty and staff to identify
https://hub.jhu.edu/2013/06/26/biophysics-research-baltimore-teens/
Johns Hopkins summer program hooks Baltimore teens on science | Hub
Jill Rosen
Johns Hopkins summer program hooks Baltimore teens on science Interns conduct basic research in labs at Homewood, East Baltimore campuses By Jill Rosen / Published June 26, 2013 Tyren Day, an 18-year-old who grew up in West Baltimore, once figured he'd become a tradesman, probably a mason. But after spending last summer in a Johns Hopkins University biophysics lab, purifying cells and cloning genes, his plans have changed. He's thinking scientist, researcher – maybe even doctor. Image caption: Tyren Day, 18, works in a Johns Hopkins University lab as part of the Biophysics Research for Baltimore Teens summer program. "It got me to see things in a different light," said Day, who's now majoring in chemistry at Community College of Baltimore County and returning to Johns Hopkins again this summer. "Where I come from, it's hard. Just going to college is awesome. But now I know I can go to
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/23/daniels-baltimore-build-event
 Daniels outlines expansion of Johns Hopkins' 'deep and unwavering' commitment to Baltimore | Hub
Hub staff report
Daniels outlines expansion of Johns Hopkins' 'deep and unwavering' commitment to Baltimore School partnerships, increases in local hiring and purchasing among planned efforts, president tells community, political, faith leaders By Hub staff report / Published June 23, 2015 Johns Hopkins is expanding its commitment to Baltimore on a number of fronts as the city faces "a time in need of new thinking and of urgent action," Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels said Monday night at a gathering of community, political, and faith leaders in West Baltimore. Daniels discussed efforts to support city schools, including new partnerships with Barclay Elementary/Middle School and Margaret Brent Elementary/Middle School, and the previously announced hiring of up to 300 Baltimore youth as part of the institution-wide summer jobs program. He pointed to Johns Hopkins' current ex-offender hiring program and work that is under way to develop more job training resources. He also previewed
http://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/04/summer-jobs-program-2015
 Johns Hopkins summer jobs program for Baltimore youth expands by 50% | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins summer jobs program for Baltimore youth expands by 50% University, hospital, health system to employ 300 students this summer By Hub staff report / Published June 4, 2015 Johns Hopkins is expanding its annual institution-wide Summer Jobs Program, which gives Baltimore City youth between the ages of 15 and 21 a chance to experience various careers while getting a taste of workplace culture. This year, the university, hospital, and health system are gearing up to employ 300 students—100 more than last summer—over the course of two summer work sessions, starting June 22 and July 27. This year's cohort is the largest in the 21-year history of the Summer Jobs Program, which was able to expand because faculty and staff quickly stepped up to provide additional paid internships for the city's young people. An email message sent Wednesday afternoon by Johns Hopkins leaders urged faculty and staff to identify
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/03/daniels-baltimore-message
 President Ronald J. Daniels outlines Johns Hopkins' 'commitment to our city' | Hub
Hub staff report
President Ronald J. Daniels outlines Johns Hopkins' 'commitment to our city' By Hub staff report / Published Sept 3, 2015 In a message to the Johns Hopkins community today, university President Ronald J. Daniels outlined recent initiatives the university and health system are undertaking to "help bend the trajectory of our city." Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels As he welcomed students, faculty and staff to the start of a new academic year, Daniels recounted connections that Johns Hopkins has made with Baltimore residents through the Summer Jobs Program, school uniform drive, and ex-offenders hiring program. He also highlighted a new public school partnership, research projects, workforce training, and the upcoming launch of the HopkinsLocal economic inclusion initiative. "As you all know, Johns Hopkins' commitment to our city and our neighbors is not new," Daniels said in his message. "It is part of who we are, inherent in our work
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/06/23/daniels-baltimore-build-event/
Daniels outlines expansion of Johns Hopkins' 'deep and unwavering' commitment to Baltimore | Hub
Hub staff report
Daniels outlines expansion of Johns Hopkins' 'deep and unwavering' commitment to Baltimore School partnerships, increases in local hiring and purchasing among planned efforts, president tells community, political, faith leaders By Hub staff report / Published June 23, 2015 Johns Hopkins is expanding its commitment to Baltimore on a number of fronts as the city faces "a time in need of new thinking and of urgent action," Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels said Monday night at a gathering of community, political, and faith leaders in West Baltimore. Daniels discussed efforts to support city schools, including new partnerships with Barclay Elementary/Middle School and Margaret Brent Elementary/Middle School, and the previously announced hiring of up to 300 Baltimore youth as part of the institution-wide summer jobs program. He pointed to Johns Hopkins' current ex-offender hiring program and work that is under way to develop more job training resources. He also previewed
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/30/hopkins-local-launch/
Johns Hopkins launches HopkinsLocal, an initiative aimed at strengthening Baltimore | Hub
Hub staff report
Johns Hopkins launches HopkinsLocal, an initiative aimed at strengthening Baltimore Effort will promote economic growth, employment opportunities in city Video: Greg Stanley and Dave Schmelick By Hub staff report / Published Sept 30, 2015 Johns Hopkins serves as a major economic engine for Baltimore, with construction and renovation projects across the city, hundreds of new employees each year, and the purchase of millions of dollars of goods and services. Now the university and health system are building on that strength with a holistic approach to promoting more economic growth and employment opportunities in the city. HopkinsLocal is a commitment to increase design and construction contracts with local minority- and women-owned businesses, expand the number of new hires that come from city neighborhoods where employment opportunities are needed, and build relationships with more city-based vendors. The initiative will also enhance Johns Hopkins' ongoing efforts to support diversity in its workforce and
https://hub.jhu.edu/2015/09/03/daniels-baltimore-message/
President Ronald J. Daniels outlines Johns Hopkins' 'commitment to our city' | Hub
Hub staff report
President Ronald J. Daniels outlines Johns Hopkins' 'commitment to our city' By Hub staff report / Published Sept 3, 2015 In a message to the Johns Hopkins community today, university President Ronald J. Daniels outlined recent initiatives the university and health system are undertaking to "help bend the trajectory of our city." Image caption: President Ronald J. Daniels As he welcomed students, faculty and staff to the start of a new academic year, Daniels recounted connections that Johns Hopkins has made with Baltimore residents through the Summer Jobs Program, school uniform drive, and ex-offenders hiring program. He also highlighted a new public school partnership, research projects, workforce training, and the upcoming launch of the HopkinsLocal economic inclusion initiative. "As you all know, Johns Hopkins' commitment to our city and our neighbors is not new," Daniels said in his message. "It is part of who we are, inherent in our work
